source/direction/monitor/observability/ui/index.html.md, before:

---
layout: markdown_page
title: "Observability UI Direction"
description: "Visualize, explore, and operationalize your DevOps data"
canonical_path: "/direction/monitor/observability/ui/"
---

- TOC
{:toc}

We would appreciate your feedback on this direction page. Please create an issue to collaborate with us or propose a MR to this page!

## Overview

Data is everywhere. Whether explicitly calculated and collected, or generated automatically, users need a way to interface with the data in order to meaningfully undrstand and turn the data into valuable assets. GitLab Observability UI (GOUI for short), is that tool. 

### What is the GitLab Observability UI?

GitLab Observability UI was created in 2022 as a fork of [Grafana 7](https://github.com/grafana/grafana). The reason we forked Grafana - add reasons

## Mission & Vision

### Mission

Remove data boundaries. All the data, both native to GitLab, and outside of GitLab, can be queried, visualized, collaborated upon, and used in combination. 

### Vision

GitLab Observability UI is an open-source data visualization tool that is part of the GitLab One DevOps platform. It allows you to query, visualize, alert on, and collaborate upon your data, leading to insights and understanding. We intend for GitLab Observability UI to come out-of-the-box with some of the most common dashboards for your DevOps processes. We also plan to make it easy to use while triaging and debugging production issues. Enabling collaboration will be a key theme. Lastly, enabling workflows outside of the GitLab Observability UI is a key capability, whether for other GitLab teams building capabilities specific to their areas, or for GitLab users and customers. We want to make sharing, embedding, or building custom visualizations a straight-forward experience.

Commit message:

Reasons why we forked Grafana

source/direction/monitor/observability/ui/index.html.md, after:

---
layout: markdown_page
title: "Observability UI Direction"
description: "Visualize, explore, and operationalize your DevOps data"
canonical_path: "/direction/monitor/observability/ui/"
---

- TOC
{:toc}

We would appreciate your feedback on this direction page. Please create an issue to collaborate with us or propose a MR to this page!

## Overview

Data is everywhere. Whether explicitly calculated and collected, or generated automatically, users need a way to interface with the data in order to meaningfully undrstand and turn the data into valuable assets. GitLab Observability UI (GOUI for short), is that tool. 

### What is the GitLab Observability UI?

GitLab Observability UI was created in 2022 as a fork of [Grafana 7](https://github.com/grafana/grafana). To learn more about why we forked Grafana, check out [this](https://opstrace.com/blog/gitlabobsvervabilityui#new-observability-user-interface) blog post.

## Mission & Vision

### Mission

Remove data boundaries. All the data, both native to GitLab, and outside of GitLab, can be queried, visualized, collaborated upon, and used in combination. 

### Vision

GitLab Observability UI is an open-source data visualization tool that is part of the GitLab One DevOps platform. It allows you to query, visualize, alert on, and collaborate upon your data, leading to insights and understanding. We intend for GitLab Observability UI to come out-of-the-box with some of the most common dashboards for your DevOps processes. We also plan to make it easy to use while triaging and debugging production issues. Enabling collaboration will be a key theme. Lastly, enabling workflows outside of the GitLab Observability UI is a key capability, whether for other GitLab teams building capabilities specific to their areas, or for GitLab users and customers. We want to make sharing, embedding, or building custom visualizations a straight-forward experience.
