sites/handbook/source/handbook/total-rewards/benefits/general-and-entity-benefits/singapore-pte-ltd/index.html.md, before:

---
layout: handbook-page-toc
title: "GitLab Singapore Pte Ltd"
description: "Discover GitLab's benefits for team members in Singapore"
---

## On this page
{:.no_toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

- TOC
{:toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

----

## Medical

GitLab offers Supplementary Medical Insurance through [SingLife with AVIVA](https://singlife.com/en) Health Insurance which covers 100% of team member and eligible dependents (spouse & kids) contributions of premiums.

The Medical Plan Coverage includes
* Group Hosptial & Surgical
* Major Medical
* Oupatient GP & SP
* Dental 
   * **Please note that Dental benefits for this plan are cashless at panel Dental Clinics only. Team Members should show their eCard at the dental clinic to utlize the plan.**

For a summary of the Medical plan details please refer to slides 8 - 26 of the [Singapore Benefits Deck](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GxTHZ4jXcUSzkk76UqsT5hZqlJPO3cMJ/view?usp=sharing)

Team Members can submit claims through the SingLife ClaimsConnect app. [See instructions](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hMnxb1yurTpP9dNbpXvC2tyvfEnFny6F/view?usp=sharing) on how to use the app and submit claims. For more details, please refer to slides 34-37 of the [Singapore Benefits Deck](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GxTHZ4jXcUSzkk76UqsT5hZqlJPO3cMJ/view?usp=sharing)

Additonal Policy Documents:
1. [MyBenefits Plus Group Basic Medical + Major Medical](https://drive.google.com/file/d/19zTv4QLOMN-eZnKw266IkCo76pEzGMHv/view?usp=sharing)
2. [MyBenefits Plus Group Outpatient (GP + SP)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1F5DNdKShKGsd4TwAEgqIpyvcXULpWL3J/view?usp=sharing)
3. [MyBenefits Plus Group Denticare](https://drive.google.com/file/d/18B1IYPSV6_id821swmUyqA9RhoPV8qMF/view?usp=sharing)


AvivaOnline IT Helpdesk Contact Information:
- Hotline: `1800 827 9955  or 6827 9955`
- Fax: `(65) 6827 7700`
- Email: `avivaonline_ithelpdesk@aviva-asia.com`
- Address: `Aviva Asia Pte Ltd, 4 Shenton Way #01-01 SGX Centre 2, Singapore 068807`


### Letter of Guarantee (LOG)

Effective 1 Aug 2022, a Letter of Guarantee (LOG) will be available for team members. 

The LOG will be on a pre-certified process via 24/7 SingLife PriorityCare Hotline at 1800 8800 880. Members can reach out for pre scheduled and emergency admission/surgery in Singapore. 

For pre-scheduled admission/surgery, please do request for LOG at least 3-5 days ahead of the admission date/surgery. Please see the [LOG FAQ](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UEmuWptjUoyw2Nl5EIkEZcfpIBOPJaUx/view) and slides 38-39 of the [Singapore Benefits Deck](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GxTHZ4jXcUSzkk76UqsT5hZqlJPO3cMJ/view?usp=sharing) for more information. 


### Willis Tower Watson Claims Assistance 

[Willis Tower Watson](https://www.wtwco.com/en-SG/Solutions/health-and-benefits) (WTW) is the broker for GitLab's group benefit plans and can assist members with any benefit questions or claims issues. 

For any claims issues or benefits queries, please reach out to the WTW team at claims.sg@willistowerswatson.com . 

For escalations, please reach out to our dedicated account manager,  Melissa Choo  melissa.choo@wtwco.com


### Enrollment 

New Team Members will be prompted to fill out a Singapore Benefits Onboarding Form during onboarding. 
Once completed, the Total Rewards team will receive the form and will work with our broker,  Willis Tower Watson, to enroll team members into the group plans.  

Team Members who experience a qualified status change can update their information by sending an email to the Total Rewards Team at total-rewards@gitlab.com 

When adding a new dependent to the plan, please include the following information in your request to Global Upside:
* Dependent Name
* Dependent Date of Birth
* NRIC Number
* Gender
* Nationality 

## Pension

GitLab does not plan to offer a supplementary private pension benefit at this time as Singapore has their Pension system called as [Central Provident Fund](https://www.cpf.gov.sg/members)

## Life Insurance 

GitLab offers company paid [Group Term Life](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1yffWuxwXD_GGzs2MCbA9xgAbgAb4JC3S/view?usp=sharing) through SingLife with AVIVA. Coverage is sum insured $500,000 SGD per member.  

For more information on the Life Insurance plan, please refer to slides 27-29 of the [Singapore Benefits Deck](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GxTHZ4jXcUSzkk76UqsT5hZqlJPO3cMJ/view?usp=sharing)

## Group Personal Accident Insurance

As of 1 Aug 2022, the Group Personal Accident plans will be covered by [Zurich](https://www.zurich.com/). Coverage is sum insured $500,000 SGD per member. Under the Zurich Personal Accident coverage, team members will also recieve extended benefits including ambulance cost coverage, emergency travel expenses, trauma counseling, and more. 

For more information on the Group Personal Accident insurance plan, please refer to slides 30-33, of the [Singapore Benefits Deck](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GxTHZ4jXcUSzkk76UqsT5hZqlJPO3cMJ/view?usp=sharing)


## GitLab Singapore Pte Ltd Parental Leave

### Statutory Leave Entitlements

#### Maternity Leave

Team members who have been continuously employed by GitLab for at least 3 months immediately before the birth of their child may be entitled to either 16 weeks of government-paid maternity leave in accordance with the Child Development Co-Savings Act or 12 weeks of maternity leave in accordance with the Employment Act. Eligibility can be determined by visiting the [Ministry of Manpower](https://www.mom.gov.sg/employment-practices/leave/maternity-leave/eligibility-and-entitlement) website.

**Government-paid maternity leave entitlement**
- For 1st and 2nd births, team members are entitled to 8 weeks paid by their employer and 8 weeks paid by the government.
- The first 8 weeks of leave must be taken in one continuous block. The following 8 weeks may be broken up into different periods; however, it must end no later than 12 months from the child's date of birth.
- For [eligible](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/total-rewards/benefits/general-and-entity-benefits/#parental-leave) team members, this leave runs concurrently with GitLab Parental Leave. Team members must initiate their leave by selecting the `Parental Leave` option in PTO by Roots at least 30 days before leave starts.

**Applying for government paid maternity leave**
- Team members must submit a [GPML Declaration](https://file.go.gov.sg/gpml1form.pdf) to [the Absence Management team](mailto:leaves@gitlab.com) as soon as possible. 
- GitLab will continue to pay the team member's salary during their leave and [submit a claim for reimbursement](https://www.profamilyleave.gov.sg/Pages/GPML.aspx#What%20should%20I%20do%20as%20an%20employer?).
- For 1st and 2nd births, GitLab will apply for reimbursement for the 9th - 16th weeks of leave. For 3rd and subsequent births, GitLab will apply for reimbursement for the full 16 weeks.

**Maternity Leave entitlements under the Employment Act**
- Eligible team members may be entitled to 12 weeks of maternity leave. This entitlement includes 8 weeks of leave paid by their employer and 4 weeks of unpaid leave.

**To initiate leave:**
- Team members must submit their leave request through PTO by Roots by choosing the `Parental Leave` option. 
- For [eligible](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/total-rewards/benefits/general-and-entity-benefits/#parental-leave) team members, this leave runs concurrently with GitLab Parental Leave. If eligible, team members would receive up to 16 weeks of paid maternity leave. 

#### Paternity Leave

Team members who have been continuously employed by GitLab for at least 3 months immediately before their child's due date may be entitled to 2 weeks of government-paid paternity leave. Please visit the [Ministry of Manpower website](https://www.mom.gov.sg/employment-practices/leave/paternity-leave) for more information on eligibility.
- For [eligible](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/total-rewards/benefits/general-and-entity-benefits/#parental-leave) team members, this leave runs concurrently with GitLab Parental Leave. If eligible, team members would receive up to 16 weeks of paid paternity leave. 

**Applying for Government-Paid Paternity Leave**
- Team members must submit their leave request through PTO by Roots by choosing the `Parental Leave` option.
- Team members must submit a [GPPL Declaration](https://file.go.gov.sg/gppl1form.pdf) to the Absence Management team at `leaves@gitlab.com` as soon as possible. 
- GitLab will continue to pay the team member's salary during their leave and [submit a claim for reimbursement](https://www.profamilyleave.msf.gov.sg/).

#### **Annual Leave** 
- Team members in Singapore are entitled to Fourteen (14) days of annual leave per year which accrues on a pro rata basis throughout the year. This leave runs concurrently with GitLab PTO. Team members should initiate leave by entering their time off into PTO by Roots and selecting the `Vacation` option.
- Team members must coordinate with their team prior to taking time off to ensure business continuity. The Company may in its absolute discretion rescind its approval for any leave applied for where the exigencies of work so require.
- Unused annual leave may not be carried forward from any year to a succeeding year except with the prior approval of the Company.
- Unless the Company approves or requires otherwise, annual leave may not be used to offset any notice periods related to a team member's resignation or termination.

#### **Other Leave**
- Team members in Singapore are entitled to such outpatient sick leave and hospitalization leave as provided in the Employment Act.
- Your entitlement (if any) to maternity leave and benefits, adoption leave, childcare leave, extended childcare leave, unpaid infant care leave, shared parental leave and paternity leave shall be as provided in the Child Development Co-Savings Act and the Employment Act.

Commit message:

Update SG Handbook with Webinar and Underwriting details

sites/handbook/source/handbook/total-rewards/benefits/general-and-entity-benefits/singapore-pte-ltd/index.html.md, after:

---
layout: handbook-page-toc
title: "GitLab Singapore Pte Ltd"
description: "Discover GitLab's benefits for team members in Singapore"
---

## On this page
{:.no_toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

- TOC
{:toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

----

## Medical

GitLab offers Supplementary Medical Insurance through [SingLife with AVIVA](https://singlife.com/en) Health Insurance which covers 100% of team member and eligible dependents (spouse & kids) contributions of premiums.

The Medical Plan Coverage includes
* Group Hosptial & Surgical
* Major Medical
* Oupatient GP & SP
* Dental 
   * **Please note that Dental benefits for this plan are cashless at panel Dental Clinics only. Team Members should show their eCard at the dental clinic to utlize the plan.**

For a summary of the Medical plan details please refer to slides 8 - 26 of the [Singapore Benefits Deck.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GxTHZ4jXcUSzkk76UqsT5hZqlJPO3cMJ/view?usp=sharing)

Please also view the [Singapore Benefits Aug 2022 Webinar](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1YPBgHMjZxjq82mYdMfsHYRmIvwcnZPU7/view?usp=sharing) for addtional information 

### SingLife Claims Connect App

Team Members can submit claims through the SingLife ClaimsConnect app. [See instructions](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hMnxb1yurTpP9dNbpXvC2tyvfEnFny6F/view?usp=sharing) on how to use the app and submit claims. For more details, please refer to slides 34-37 of the [Singapore Benefits Deck](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GxTHZ4jXcUSzkk76UqsT5hZqlJPO3cMJ/view?usp=sharing)


For assistance with the ClaimsConnect App, AvivaOnline IT Helpdesk Contact Information:
- Hotline: `1800 827 9955  or 6827 9955`
- Fax: `(65) 6827 7700`
- Email: `avivaonline_ithelpdesk@aviva-asia.com`
- Address: `Aviva Asia Pte Ltd, 4 Shenton Way #01-01 SGX Centre 2, Singapore 068807`

For Claims assistance, please contact [Willis Tower Watson](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/total-rewards/benefits/general-and-entity-benefits/singapore-pte-ltd/#willis-tower-watson-claims-assistance)

### Letter of Guarantee (LOG)

Effective 1 Aug 2022, a Letter of Guarantee (LOG) will be available for team members. 

The LOG will be on a pre-certified process via 24/7 SingLife PriorityCare Hotline at 1800 8800 880. Members can reach out for pre scheduled and emergency admission/surgery in Singapore. 

For pre-scheduled admission/surgery, please do request for LOG at least 3-5 days ahead of the admission date/surgery. Please see the [LOG FAQ](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UEmuWptjUoyw2Nl5EIkEZcfpIBOPJaUx/view) and slides 38-39 of the [Singapore Benefits Deck](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GxTHZ4jXcUSzkk76UqsT5hZqlJPO3cMJ/view?usp=sharing) for more information. 


### Willis Tower Watson Claims Assistance 

[Willis Tower Watson](https://www.wtwco.com/en-SG/Solutions/health-and-benefits) (WTW) is the broker for GitLab's group benefit plans and can assist members with any benefit questions or claims issues. 

For any claims issues or benefits queries, please reach out to the WTW team at `claims.sg@willistowerswatson.com` . 

For escalations, please reach out to our dedicated account manager,  Melissa Choo  `melissa.choo@wtwco.com`


### Enrollment 

New Team Members will be prompted to fill out a Singapore Benefits Onboarding Form during onboarding. 
Once completed, the Total Rewards team will receive the form and will work with our broker,  Willis Tower Watson, to enroll team members into the group plans.  
Team Members will receive underwriting forms from Aviva within the first month from their hire date. 

Team Members who experience a qualified status change can update their information by sending an email to the Total Rewards Team at total-rewards@gitlab.com 

When adding a new dependent to the plan, please include the following information in your request to Global Upside:
* Dependent Name
* Dependent Date of Birth
* NRIC Number
* Gender
* Nationality 

## Pension

GitLab does not plan to offer a supplementary private pension benefit at this time as Singapore has their Pension system called as [Central Provident Fund](https://www.cpf.gov.sg/members)

## Life Insurance 

GitLab offers company paid Group Term Life through SingLife with AVIVA. Coverage is sum insured $500,000 SGD per member.  

**Underwriting**:  Members are automatically coverd up to the Free Cover Limit of $150,000 SGD. In order to recieve the full coverage of $500,000 SGD, team members must complete medical underwriting requirements. Underwriting forms will be sent directly to the team member from Aviva during enrollment. 

For more details on the coverage of the Life Insurance plan, please refer to slides 27-29 of the [Singapore Benefits Deck](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GxTHZ4jXcUSzkk76UqsT5hZqlJPO3cMJ/view?usp=sharing)
Please also view the [Singapore Benefits Aug 2022 Webinar](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1YPBgHMjZxjq82mYdMfsHYRmIvwcnZPU7/view?usp=sharing) for addtional information 


## Group Personal Accident Insurance

As of 1 Aug 2022, the Group Personal Accident plans will be covered by [Zurich](https://www.zurich.com/). Coverage is sum insured $500,000 SGD per member. Under the Zurich Personal Accident coverage, team members will also recieve extended benefits including ambulance cost coverage, emergency travel expenses, trauma counseling, and more. 

For more information on the Group Personal Accident insurance plan, please refer to slides 30-33, of the [Singapore Benefits Deck](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GxTHZ4jXcUSzkk76UqsT5hZqlJPO3cMJ/view?usp=sharing)
Please also view the [Singapore Benefits Aug 2022 Webinar](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1YPBgHMjZxjq82mYdMfsHYRmIvwcnZPU7/view?usp=sharing) for addtional information 



## GitLab Singapore Pte Ltd Parental Leave

### Statutory Leave Entitlements

#### Maternity Leave

Team members who have been continuously employed by GitLab for at least 3 months immediately before the birth of their child may be entitled to either 16 weeks of government-paid maternity leave in accordance with the Child Development Co-Savings Act or 12 weeks of maternity leave in accordance with the Employment Act. Eligibility can be determined by visiting the [Ministry of Manpower](https://www.mom.gov.sg/employment-practices/leave/maternity-leave/eligibility-and-entitlement) website.

**Government-paid maternity leave entitlement**
- For 1st and 2nd births, team members are entitled to 8 weeks paid by their employer and 8 weeks paid by the government.
- The first 8 weeks of leave must be taken in one continuous block. The following 8 weeks may be broken up into different periods; however, it must end no later than 12 months from the child's date of birth.
- For [eligible](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/total-rewards/benefits/general-and-entity-benefits/#parental-leave) team members, this leave runs concurrently with GitLab Parental Leave. Team members must initiate their leave by selecting the `Parental Leave` option in PTO by Roots at least 30 days before leave starts.

**Applying for government paid maternity leave**
- Team members must submit a [GPML Declaration](https://file.go.gov.sg/gpml1form.pdf) to [the Absence Management team](mailto:leaves@gitlab.com) as soon as possible. 
- GitLab will continue to pay the team member's salary during their leave and [submit a claim for reimbursement](https://www.profamilyleave.gov.sg/Pages/GPML.aspx#What%20should%20I%20do%20as%20an%20employer?).
- For 1st and 2nd births, GitLab will apply for reimbursement for the 9th - 16th weeks of leave. For 3rd and subsequent births, GitLab will apply for reimbursement for the full 16 weeks.

**Maternity Leave entitlements under the Employment Act**
- Eligible team members may be entitled to 12 weeks of maternity leave. This entitlement includes 8 weeks of leave paid by their employer and 4 weeks of unpaid leave.

**To initiate leave:**
- Team members must submit their leave request through PTO by Roots by choosing the `Parental Leave` option. 
- For [eligible](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/total-rewards/benefits/general-and-entity-benefits/#parental-leave) team members, this leave runs concurrently with GitLab Parental Leave. If eligible, team members would receive up to 16 weeks of paid maternity leave. 

#### Paternity Leave

Team members who have been continuously employed by GitLab for at least 3 months immediately before their child's due date may be entitled to 2 weeks of government-paid paternity leave. Please visit the [Ministry of Manpower website](https://www.mom.gov.sg/employment-practices/leave/paternity-leave) for more information on eligibility.
- For [eligible](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/total-rewards/benefits/general-and-entity-benefits/#parental-leave) team members, this leave runs concurrently with GitLab Parental Leave. If eligible, team members would receive up to 16 weeks of paid paternity leave. 

**Applying for Government-Paid Paternity Leave**
- Team members must submit their leave request through PTO by Roots by choosing the `Parental Leave` option.
- Team members must submit a [GPPL Declaration](https://file.go.gov.sg/gppl1form.pdf) to the Absence Management team at `leaves@gitlab.com` as soon as possible. 
- GitLab will continue to pay the team member's salary during their leave and [submit a claim for reimbursement](https://www.profamilyleave.msf.gov.sg/).

#### **Annual Leave** 
- Team members in Singapore are entitled to Fourteen (14) days of annual leave per year which accrues on a pro rata basis throughout the year. This leave runs concurrently with GitLab PTO. Team members should initiate leave by entering their time off into PTO by Roots and selecting the `Vacation` option.
- Team members must coordinate with their team prior to taking time off to ensure business continuity. The Company may in its absolute discretion rescind its approval for any leave applied for where the exigencies of work so require.
- Unused annual leave may not be carried forward from any year to a succeeding year except with the prior approval of the Company.
- Unless the Company approves or requires otherwise, annual leave may not be used to offset any notice periods related to a team member's resignation or termination.

#### **Other Leave**
- Team members in Singapore are entitled to such outpatient sick leave and hospitalization leave as provided in the Employment Act.
- Your entitlement (if any) to maternity leave and benefits, adoption leave, childcare leave, extended childcare leave, unpaid infant care leave, shared parental leave and paternity leave shall be as provided in the Child Development Co-Savings Act and the Employment Act.
