sites/handbook/source/handbook/people-group/people-compliance/people-compliance-reporting/index.html.md, before:

---
layout: handbook-page-toc
title: "People Compliance Reporting"
description: "The People Compliance team manages and ensure that all mandated HR-related reporting are completed swiftly and submitted accurately."
---

## On this page
{:.no_toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

- TOC
{:toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

# United States

## EEO-1

The [EEO-1 Component 1](https://www.eeoc.gov/employers/eeo-1-data-collection) report is a mandatory annual data collection that requires all private sector employers with 100 or more employees, and federal contractors with 50 or more employees meeting certain criteria, to submit demographic workforce data, including data by race/ethnicity, sex and job categories.

## AAP 

According to United States Federal regulation [41 CFR § 60-2.10](https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?SID=e0353318617a8ade7d25fbafc465539c&mc=true&tpl=/ecfrbrowse/Title41/41cfr60-2_main_02.tpl), "an affirmative action program is a management tool designed to ensure equal employment opportunity. A central premise underlying affirmative action is that, absent discrimination, over time a contractor's workforce, generally, will reflect the gender, racial and ethnic profile of the labor pools from which the contractor recruits and selects. Affirmative action programs contain a diagnostic component which includes a number of quantitative analyses designed to evaluate the composition of the workforce of the contractor and compare it to the composition of the relevant labor pools. Affirmative action programs (AAP) also include action-oriented programs. If women and minorities are not being employed at a rate to be expected given their availability in the relevant labor pool, the contractor's affirmative action program includes specific practical steps designed to address this underutilization. Effective affirmative action programs also include internal auditing and reporting systems as a means of measuring the contractor's progress toward achieving the workforce that would be expected in the absence of discrimination." 

The US Department of Labor's Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) enforces the Executive Order 11246, as amended; Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; and the affirmative action provisions (Section 4212) of the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act, as amended. Taken together, these laws ban discrimination and require federal contractors and subcontractors to take affirmative action to ensure that all individuals have an equal opportunity for employment, without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability or status as a Vietnam era or special disabled veteran.

Our AAP is developed using the same start month every year. The AAP report is kept on file internally and shared with the OFCCP in the case of an audit.

- In 2021, we gathered data to file our AAP for our Fiscal Year 2022 (February 1, 2021 to January 31, 2022). 
- In 2022, we gathered data to file our AAP for our Fiscal Year 2023 (February 1, 2022 – January 31, 2023). 

## VETS-4212 

The U.S. Department of Labor's Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS) and Office of Federal Contractor Compliance Programs (OFCCP) have supported affirmative actions to employ and advance in employment of covered veterans since 2008. As legislatively mandated under 38 U.S. Code Section 4212, codified at 41 CFR 61-300, contractors and subcontractors who enter into, or modify a contract or subcontract with the federal government, and whose contract meets the criteria set forth in the above legislation / regulations, are required to report annually on their affirmative action efforts in employing veterans. Data reported through form [VETS-4212](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/vets/programs/vets4212) is used by OFCCP in compliance evaluations.

The VETS deadline is September 30 every year. Our VETS data set is combined with our EEO data set.

## Other State Reports 

### California Pay Data Report

On September 30, 2020, CA Governor Newsom signed into law Senate Bill 973, which creates massive pay reporting requirements for employers. As of 2021, California employers are required to submit annual information on its employees’ pay data by gender, race, and ethnicity to the state’s Department of Fair Employment and Housing (DFEH).  

Specifically, the new law requires employers, (a) with 100 or more employees; and (b) that must file an annual Employer Information Report (EEO-1) under federal law, to submit an annual report to the DFEH that includes the number of employees (and the hours they worked):

- By race, ethnicity, and sex;
- In each of the Job Categories in the federal EEO-1 Report; and
- Whose annual earnings fall within each of the pay bands used by the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics in the Occupational Employment Statistics survey.

Employers must create a "snapshot" that counts all of the individuals in each job category by race, ethnicity and sex employed during a single pay period of the employer's choice between October 1 and December 31 of the reporting year. The CA Pay Data reports are usually due in late March / early April of the succeeding year. Our California Pay Data Reports were submitted:

- For calendar year 2020, submitted prior to the deadline of March 31, 2021
- For calendar year 2021, submitted prior to the deadline of April 1, 2022 

### Illinois SB 1480 

Illinois’ SB 1480 requires employers to make their EEO-1 reports public beginning in early 2023. There are no details on if it’s the exact EEO-1 report or if they’ll require a different type of filing to make that public on their state-run website. The reporting structure and what is required is still pending approval by the Secretary of State. In addition, IL will have a Pay Data reporting component. What that reporting looks like and what fields would be required are also unknown at this time. The requirements for both IL reports begin January 1, 2023, so there will be additional information given nearer to that date.

Illinois employers will also need to begin reviewing and potentially modifying their compensation practices immediately to obtain an equal pay registration certificate, which will be required as of March 24, 2024. To apply for an equal pay registration certificate, employers will be required to submit the following to the Illinois Department of Labor:

- Compliance statement: An equal pay act compliance statement, signed by a corporate officer, legal counsel, or authorized agent of the business;
- Employer Information Report EEO-1: If required to file an EEO-1 report with the EEOC, a copy of the organization’s most recently filed EEO-1 report for each IL county in which the business has a facility or employee(s);
- List of employees: Separated by gender and race/ethnicity categories as reported in the business’s most recently filed EEO-1 report and the total wages as defined by Section 2 of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act paid to each employee during the past calendar year.

# Ireland

## Gender Pay Gap Report

Under the [Gender Pay Gap Information Act 2021](https://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2021/act/20/enacted/en/print.html), certain employers are required to report not only whether there is a gender pay gap in their organisation, but why there is one, and what they intend to do about it. Employers must choose a “snapshot date” in June, which will establish the data set for its December report, and which will then be used for year-on-year comparison purposes into the future. 

Employers are required to publish the information annually on their website and ensure that the information is accessible to their employees and also the general public. From 2024, this report will be required for employers with a minimum of 150 employees, and from 2025, this report will be required for employers with a minimum of 50 employees. GitLab Ireland Ltd will continue to monitor our team member head count to ensure that we comply with this reporting requirement should we reach this or above the threshold.

Commit message:

Add WGEA Report to Reporting list

sites/handbook/source/handbook/people-group/people-compliance/people-compliance-reporting/index.html.md, after:

---
layout: handbook-page-toc
title: "People Compliance Reporting"
description: "The People Compliance team manages and ensure that all mandated HR-related reporting are completed swiftly and submitted accurately."
---

## On this page
{:.no_toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

- TOC
{:toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

# United States

## EEO-1

The [EEO-1 Component 1](https://www.eeoc.gov/employers/eeo-1-data-collection) report is a mandatory annual data collection that requires all private sector employers with 100 or more employees, and federal contractors with 50 or more employees meeting certain criteria, to submit demographic workforce data, including data by race/ethnicity, sex and job categories.

## AAP 

According to United States Federal regulation [41 CFR § 60-2.10](https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?SID=e0353318617a8ade7d25fbafc465539c&mc=true&tpl=/ecfrbrowse/Title41/41cfr60-2_main_02.tpl), "an affirmative action program is a management tool designed to ensure equal employment opportunity. A central premise underlying affirmative action is that, absent discrimination, over time a contractor's workforce, generally, will reflect the gender, racial and ethnic profile of the labor pools from which the contractor recruits and selects. Affirmative action programs contain a diagnostic component which includes a number of quantitative analyses designed to evaluate the composition of the workforce of the contractor and compare it to the composition of the relevant labor pools. Affirmative action programs (AAP) also include action-oriented programs. If women and minorities are not being employed at a rate to be expected given their availability in the relevant labor pool, the contractor's affirmative action program includes specific practical steps designed to address this underutilization. Effective affirmative action programs also include internal auditing and reporting systems as a means of measuring the contractor's progress toward achieving the workforce that would be expected in the absence of discrimination." 

The US Department of Labor's Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) enforces the Executive Order 11246, as amended; Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; and the affirmative action provisions (Section 4212) of the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act, as amended. Taken together, these laws ban discrimination and require federal contractors and subcontractors to take affirmative action to ensure that all individuals have an equal opportunity for employment, without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability or status as a Vietnam era or special disabled veteran.

Our AAP is developed using the same start month every year. The AAP report is kept on file internally and shared with the OFCCP in the case of an audit.

- In 2021, we gathered data to file our AAP for our Fiscal Year 2022 (February 1, 2021 to January 31, 2022). 
- In 2022, we gathered data to file our AAP for our Fiscal Year 2023 (February 1, 2022 – January 31, 2023). 

## VETS-4212 

The U.S. Department of Labor's Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS) and Office of Federal Contractor Compliance Programs (OFCCP) have supported affirmative actions to employ and advance in employment of covered veterans since 2008. As legislatively mandated under 38 U.S. Code Section 4212, codified at 41 CFR 61-300, contractors and subcontractors who enter into, or modify a contract or subcontract with the federal government, and whose contract meets the criteria set forth in the above legislation / regulations, are required to report annually on their affirmative action efforts in employing veterans. Data reported through form [VETS-4212](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/vets/programs/vets4212) is used by OFCCP in compliance evaluations.

The VETS deadline is September 30 every year. Our VETS data set is combined with our EEO data set.

## Other State Reports 

### California Pay Data Report

On September 30, 2020, CA Governor Newsom signed into law Senate Bill 973, which creates massive pay reporting requirements for employers. As of 2021, California employers are required to submit annual information on its employees’ pay data by gender, race, and ethnicity to the state’s Department of Fair Employment and Housing (DFEH).  

Specifically, the new law requires employers, (a) with 100 or more employees; and (b) that must file an annual Employer Information Report (EEO-1) under federal law, to submit an annual report to the DFEH that includes the number of employees (and the hours they worked):

- By race, ethnicity, and sex;
- In each of the Job Categories in the federal EEO-1 Report; and
- Whose annual earnings fall within each of the pay bands used by the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics in the Occupational Employment Statistics survey.

Employers must create a "snapshot" that counts all of the individuals in each job category by race, ethnicity and sex employed during a single pay period of the employer's choice between October 1 and December 31 of the reporting year. The CA Pay Data reports are usually due in late March / early April of the succeeding year. Our California Pay Data Reports were submitted:

- For calendar year 2020, submitted prior to the deadline of March 31, 2021
- For calendar year 2021, submitted prior to the deadline of April 1, 2022 

### Illinois SB 1480 

Illinois’ SB 1480 requires employers to make their EEO-1 reports public beginning in early 2023. There are no details on if it’s the exact EEO-1 report or if they’ll require a different type of filing to make that public on their state-run website. The reporting structure and what is required is still pending approval by the Secretary of State. In addition, IL will have a Pay Data reporting component. What that reporting looks like and what fields would be required are also unknown at this time. The requirements for both IL reports begin January 1, 2023, so there will be additional information given nearer to that date.

Illinois employers will also need to begin reviewing and potentially modifying their compensation practices immediately to obtain an equal pay registration certificate, which will be required as of March 24, 2024. To apply for an equal pay registration certificate, employers will be required to submit the following to the Illinois Department of Labor:

- Compliance statement: An equal pay act compliance statement, signed by a corporate officer, legal counsel, or authorized agent of the business;
- Employer Information Report EEO-1: If required to file an EEO-1 report with the EEOC, a copy of the organization’s most recently filed EEO-1 report for each IL county in which the business has a facility or employee(s);
- List of employees: Separated by gender and race/ethnicity categories as reported in the business’s most recently filed EEO-1 report and the total wages as defined by Section 2 of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act paid to each employee during the past calendar year.

# Australia

## Workplace Gender Equality Act (WGWA) Report

The [Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012](https://www.wgea.gov.au/what-we-do/reporting) requires non-public sector employers with 100 or more employees (for 6 months or more of a reporting period) to submit a report to the Workplace Gender Equality Agency. 

Each year, the WGEA Portal opens on 1 April for reporting. Organisations then have two months to submit their reports, with reports due on 31 May. Reports cover the preceding 12-month reporting period. The reporting period is the same each year, from 1 April (the previous year) to 31 March (the current year). 

GitLab is tracking our headcount in Australia, so that in the event that we fall under the headcount requirement, we will ensure to submit our WGEA report by May 31, 2023.

# Ireland

## Gender Pay Gap Report

Under the [Gender Pay Gap Information Act 2021](https://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2021/act/20/enacted/en/print.html), certain employers are required to report not only whether there is a gender pay gap in their organisation, but why there is one, and what they intend to do about it. Employers must choose a “snapshot date” in June, which will establish the data set for its December report, and which will then be used for year-on-year comparison purposes into the future. 

Employers are required to publish the information annually on their website and ensure that the information is accessible to their employees and also the general public. From 2024, this report will be required for employers with a minimum of 150 employees, and from 2025, this report will be required for employers with a minimum of 50 employees. GitLab Ireland Ltd will continue to monitor our team member head count to ensure that we comply with this reporting requirement should we reach this or above the threshold.
