sites/handbook/source/handbook/people-group/celebrations/index.html.md, before:

---
layout: handbook-page-toc
title: "Celebrations and Significant Life Events"
description: "Review different ways GitLab celebrates its team members."
---

## On this page
{:.no_toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

- TOC
{:toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

## Celebrations

### GitLab Anniversary
At GitLab we like to acknowledge and celebrate team member milestones and contributions.  This means that those celebrating their first, third, fifth and tenth hire-date anniversary will receive a token of acknowledgement.

Along with this, all celebrants regardless of length of tenure will receive a mention in the **#team-member-updates** channel which allows the greater GitLab community to share in the celebration!

#### Anniversary Gifts
On the last day of the month of celebration, team members can anticipate an email with a unique link which will lead them to the GitLab Anniversary Gift ordering portal where they can make the relevant size and shipping selections (where applicable).

The average shipping time taking into account current restrictions as a result of global events is three weeks.  In an instance where an order has been placed and not received we encourage team members to reach out to People Connect in the **#people-connect** channel.

| Year | Gift | 
| --- | --- | 
| **Year 01** | Celebratory Confetti Tanuki Socks (Unique to the Anniversary Program) or Corkcicle Tumbler |
| **Year 03** | GitLab Tanuki Vest or Orange Puffer Jacket (limited sizes) |
| **Year 05** | Travel Bag / Backpack |
| **Year 10** | $500 Travel Grant |

### Team Member Birthdays
GitLab encourages team members to take a day of vacation on their special day in alignment with our **[Paid Time Off Policy](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/paid-time-off/#a-gitlab-team-members-guide-to-time-off)**.  If your celebration happens to fall over a weekend please be sure to take an alternate day such as the Friday prior or the Monday after.

Kindly note that team members are welcome to send cards or tokens of acknowledgement to celebrants in their personal capacity however the People Connect Team is unable to do so on behalf of GitLab; a Team or an Individual Team Member.

### Team Member Gifts
GitLab is modifying the policy for team member gifts and piloting a new gift giving program beginning `2022-08-01`. People Managers now have the ability to send gifts on behalf of their team. Any People Manager can send a gift to any team member at GitLab to let them know they are thinking about them. Examples include:

- A new team member recently purchased a new home and shared their news with others. A People Manager sends a "Home Sweet Home" doormat as a congratulatory gift.    
- While working a People Manager noticed a team member’s children in the background of a Zoom call and surprised the kids with a new game.
- A team member wasn’t feeling well, which was noticed by a People Manager who sent a care package of food as a ‘get well soon’ gesture.   

The cost of the gifts provided to GitLab Team Members will be allocated to the senders departmental budget. The allowable cost for gifts is up to $125 USD (including shipping) per gift. If a gift card is given, the value cannot exceed $25 USD (or local currency equivalent).  

People Managers are to use their own personal card for expense reimbursement, EBA's Corporate Cards are not to be used for these gifts.  People Managers will need to be sure to use `EmployeeGiftsFlowers` and the account 6028 in [Expensify](/handbook/finance/expenses/) for the expense.   

For further questions regarding expensing of gifts, please reach out to the AP team via the `#expense-reporting-inquiries` Slack channel or through email (`ap@gitlab.com`).




### Flowers and Gift Ordering
Managers are able to send Gifts and Flowers on behalf of their team members in acknowledgment of significant life events such as the birth of a little one; well wishes ahead of surgery, or the loss of a loved one. Generally we wouldn't send over gifts or flowers for (public) holidays that would not relate to a significant life event. If ever in doubt reach out to your manager to check before purchasing any gifts or flowers. 

The event in question must pertain to a GitLab Team Member or the immediate family of a GitLab Team Member and will be allocated to the respective team members departmental budget - the spend range for significant life events is **$75 to $125**. 

Managers can facilitate the ordering of Flowers or Gifts for delivery, but please note that you are unable to send restaurant gift cards at this time.  In an instance where you would like to extend the offer of a meal or food delivery service, this will need to be expensed by the recipient for reimbursement.

**Please note: The intended recipient will need to provide their residential address directly for the purposes of flower / gift delivery - personal information may not be disclosed without team member consent.**

Recommended sites:
- [1-800 Flowers](https://www.1800flowers.com/) 
- [Flora Queen](https://www.floraqueen.com/) 

The budget for sending these gifts will come from the department budget of the gift-receiving team member. 

To make sure the reports in Expensify are routed correctly, managers will need to be sure to fill in the correct division and department. Managers will also need to be sure to use `FY22_EmployeeGiftsFlowers` in the `classification` section of the expense.  

For any further questions regarding expensing of flowers or gifts, please reach out to the AP team at `ap@gitlab.com`

### Sending an E-Card

Another nice way to celebrate someone, express your appreciation or show support to a team member is by creating an e-card and having team members sign the card via DocuSign. Have have fun with this, get creative when making the card using google docs, google slides or a program of your choice.
An example can be found [here](https://documentcloud.adobe.com/link/track?uri=urn:aaid:scds:US:6034eed9-38e3-440e-bf5a-297905e13f06).
Once you have your card created:

1. Upload the document to DocuSign
1. Once uploaded, assign signatures to those individuals that you would like to sign and then send the request to those individuals
1. When an individual has signed you will get an email notification
1. After you have all of your signatures then download the document from DocuSign
1. Slack or email the card to the recipient

Recommended sites:
- [Ella Cards](https://www.ellacard.com/)

Commit message:

Updating Anniversary Swag Process - Currently Unavailable

sites/handbook/source/handbook/people-group/celebrations/index.html.md, after:

---
layout: handbook-page-toc
title: "Celebrations and Significant Life Events"
description: "Review different ways GitLab celebrates its team members."
---

## On this page
{:.no_toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

- TOC
{:toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

## Celebrations

### GitLab Anniversary
At GitLab we like to acknowledge and celebrate team member milestones and contributions.  This means that those celebrating their first, third, fifth and tenth hire-date anniversary will receive a token of acknowledgement.

Along with this, all celebrants regardless of length of tenure will receive a mention in the **#team-member-updates** channel which allows the greater GitLab community to share in the celebration!

#### Anniversary Gifts
Anniversary gifts are not currently available. We ask for your patience as we work through securing a new method to distribute swag across our global structure. Once we have identified a path forward you or your Team Member will receive an email notifying you on steps to take to request your anniversary gifts. 

### Team Member Birthdays
GitLab encourages team members to take a day of vacation on their special day in alignment with our **[Paid Time Off Policy](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/paid-time-off/#a-gitlab-team-members-guide-to-time-off)**.  If your celebration happens to fall over a weekend please be sure to take an alternate day such as the Friday prior or the Monday after.

Kindly note that team members are welcome to send cards or tokens of acknowledgement to celebrants in their personal capacity however the People Connect Team is unable to do so on behalf of GitLab; a Team or an Individual Team Member.

### Team Member Gifts
GitLab is modifying the policy for team member gifts and piloting a new gift giving program beginning `2022-08-01`. People Managers now have the ability to send gifts on behalf of their team. Any People Manager can send a gift to any team member at GitLab to let them know they are thinking about them. Examples include:

- A new team member recently purchased a new home and shared their news with others. A People Manager sends a "Home Sweet Home" doormat as a congratulatory gift.    
- While working a People Manager noticed a team member’s children in the background of a Zoom call and surprised the kids with a new game.
- A team member wasn’t feeling well, which was noticed by a People Manager who sent a care package of food as a ‘get well soon’ gesture.   

The cost of the gifts provided to GitLab Team Members will be allocated to the senders departmental budget. The allowable cost for gifts is up to $125 USD (including shipping) per gift. If a gift card is given, the value cannot exceed $25 USD (or local currency equivalent).  

People Managers are to use their own personal card for expense reimbursement, EBA's Corporate Cards are not to be used for these gifts.  People Managers will need to be sure to use `EmployeeGiftsFlowers` and the account 6028 in [Expensify](/handbook/finance/expenses/) for the expense.   

For further questions regarding expensing of gifts, please reach out to the AP team via the `#expense-reporting-inquiries` Slack channel or through email (`ap@gitlab.com`).




### Flowers and Gift Ordering
Managers are able to send Gifts and Flowers on behalf of their team members in acknowledgment of significant life events such as the birth of a little one; well wishes ahead of surgery, or the loss of a loved one. Generally we wouldn't send over gifts or flowers for (public) holidays that would not relate to a significant life event. If ever in doubt reach out to your manager to check before purchasing any gifts or flowers. 

The event in question must pertain to a GitLab Team Member or the immediate family of a GitLab Team Member and will be allocated to the respective team members departmental budget - the spend range for significant life events is **$75 to $125**. 

Managers can facilitate the ordering of Flowers or Gifts for delivery, but please note that you are unable to send restaurant gift cards at this time.  In an instance where you would like to extend the offer of a meal or food delivery service, this will need to be expensed by the recipient for reimbursement.

**Please note: The intended recipient will need to provide their residential address directly for the purposes of flower / gift delivery - personal information may not be disclosed without team member consent.**

Recommended sites:
- [1-800 Flowers](https://www.1800flowers.com/) 
- [Flora Queen](https://www.floraqueen.com/) 

The budget for sending these gifts will come from the department budget of the gift-receiving team member. 

To make sure the reports in Expensify are routed correctly, managers will need to be sure to fill in the correct division and department. Managers will also need to be sure to use `FY22_EmployeeGiftsFlowers` in the `classification` section of the expense.  

For any further questions regarding expensing of flowers or gifts, please reach out to the AP team at `ap@gitlab.com`

### Sending an E-Card

Another nice way to celebrate someone, express your appreciation or show support to a team member is by creating an e-card and having team members sign the card via DocuSign. Have have fun with this, get creative when making the card using google docs, google slides or a program of your choice.
An example can be found [here](https://documentcloud.adobe.com/link/track?uri=urn:aaid:scds:US:6034eed9-38e3-440e-bf5a-297905e13f06).
Once you have your card created:

1. Upload the document to DocuSign
1. Once uploaded, assign signatures to those individuals that you would like to sign and then send the request to those individuals
1. When an individual has signed you will get an email notification
1. After you have all of your signatures then download the document from DocuSign
1. Slack or email the card to the recipient

Recommended sites:
- [Ella Cards](https://www.ellacard.com/)
