---
title: 1.5M raised in seed funding for GitLab to accelerate growth and expand operations
description: "We are excited to announce that we have raised $1.5M in seed funding for GitLab to accelerate growth and expand operations."
canonical_path: "/blog/2015/07/09/1-5m-raised-in-seed-funding-for-gitlab-to-accelerate-growth-and-expand-operations/"
categories: company
date: 2015-07-09
author: GitLab
image_title: '/images/unsplash/gitlab-funded.jpeg'
author_twitter: gitlab
---

GitLab [started](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/commits/v0.9.4) as a
on-premises software where [Dmitriy](/company/team/)
could put his repositories.
Open-source; built by and for developers, our community grew quickly to
[hundreds](http://contributors.gitlab.com/) of contributors world-wide.

Today, over a hundred thousands organizations are using GitLab to build software
that puts people in space (NASA, SpaceX), helps discover new particles (CERN) and
move computing forward (IBM, Qualcomm), among many others.
These organizations and many individual contributors hack on,
contribute and help GitLab become better every single day.

It is our goal to become the default solution for anyone building software and
working together. The excitement and passion of our community has convinced us
that open-source is the way forward. We want to accelerate our growth and expand
operations so we can reach more people and build an even better GitLab.

In the effort to reach our goal, we are excited to announce that we have raised
$1.5M in seed funding led by Khosla Ventures, 500 Startups, Crunchfund,
Sound Ventures (Ashton Kutcher), and Liquid 2 Ventures (Joe Montana).

<!--more-->

## Building an Open-Source Company

The popularity of GitLab as an open-source project made it possible to found a
company. By selling support and later [GitLab Enterprise Edition](/pricing/)
we were able to grow a company that was able to support GitLab for large enterprises
by [integrating with their own software](/features/#compare),
while still giving back to the community new features in every release of GitLab CE
and a completely free hosted service in the form of [GitLab.com](/pricing/) .

These moves made it possible for the majority of our team to nerd-out in Silicon Valley
at [Y Combinator](/blog/2015/03/04/gitlab-is-part-of-the-y-combinator-family/)
at the start of this year, where we learned a lot about business and growth, and
got motivated by the enthusiasm and ambition of our batch-mates.

By now, we knew we wanted to go above and beyond what we had done so far
and make GitLab bigger and better for everyone, which is why we've started
working together with some amazing investors.

Vinod Khosla, founder and partner of Khosla Ventures said this about us:

> “There’s a big market demand for more open-source solutions that allow engineers
to create, review, and deploy code enabling their teams to build better products faster.”

> “We invested in GitLab because it meets this demand by allowing engineers to more
easily review each other’s work, collaborate, and merge good input,
thereby accelerating the iterative process behind creating products.”

We're all very excited with this opportunity our investors have given us.
It means we can accelerate growth and scale our US operations, which
includes the recent opening of a new Experience Center in San Francisco (don't worry,
we're [still remote](/blog/2015/04/08/the-remote-manifesto/)!).

Sytse "Sid" Sijbrandij, our CEO said:

> “The GitLab team is thrilled to have such an experienced and respected group of investors.
We started GitLab with a dream to become the default solution for developers to
create better products together, faster."

> "Enterprise technology is being replaced by open-source technology,
and this seed round of funding will help us accelerate our growth and
build our sales and marketing team in San Francisco to work more closely with
current and new clients.”

## Thank you for believing in us

We'd like to thank our amazing community that has contributed major features,
bug fixes, documentation updates and more than we can ever return. We owe
GitLab's existence to your enthusiasm, drive and hard work.

Thank you to our team, that has been working hard every single day and feels
more like a highly distributed, international family than a company.
We especially like to thank the [core team](/community/core-team/)
members that are not with GitLab Inc: Nihad Abbasov, Robert Schilling,
Hannes Rosenögger, Achilleas Pipinellis, Stan Hu, Jeroen van Baarsen and Drew Blessing.

And thank you to our investors for giving us trust and support in achieving our
goals and vision.

It was a little more than a year ago that we were only dreaming about being
a funded company. We're extremely excited and hopeful for the future of GitLab
as an amazing tool to build products, as a community and as a company.

_Want to help GitLab grow? [We're looking for people to work with us!](/jobs/)_

---

[Download the press release PDF](/images/press/press/GitLab_Seed_Funding_Press_Announcement.pdf)
