sites/handbook/source/handbook/customer-success/customer-health-scoring/index.html.md, before:

---
layout: handbook-page-toc
title: "Customer Health Scoring"
description: "Customer Account Scoring overview and methodology framework to improve our understanding of the customer's journey and their ROI attainment."
---

## On this page
{:.no_toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

- TOC
{:toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}


{::options parse_block_html="true" /}

---


# Vision

The Customer Health Score assists GitLab Account Teams in understanding the relative health of customers for the purposes of predicting expansion, retention, and churn through understanding the customer's product adoption, risks, and engaging with GitLab. The initial versions will focus more on adoption. Over time, we will iterate to make them more predictive as we validate leading indicators.

## Scoring Methodologies

Product usage data informs three different scores. They each have a distinct and separate purpose, are meant for different audiences, and use different metrics.

### Customer Health Score
- **Audience**: Internal GitLab Teams
- **Purpose**: To enable the team in understanding the relative health of customers, identify risks, manage renewal likelihood, and identify expansion opportunities and why. 
- **Metrics**: Account Health is an aggregation of key metrics for a multi-perspective view of the customer. For detail, see [Account Health Predictor](/handbook/customer-success/customer-health-scoring/#account-health-predictor) above.

### Platform Value Score
- **Audience**: Internal GitLab Teams
- **Purpose**: Each account will have a single Platform Value Score (PVS) used to understand how much value the account is currently receiving from Gitlab as a Platform.
- **Metrics**: 5–7 product usage metrics per Use Case, using Red/Yellow/Green scoring. The metrics will roll up into a score for each Use Case, and the Use Case scores will roll up to the Platform Value Score. 
- NOTE: No handbook page available yet as this is a work in progress in FY23-Q3.

### DevOps Score 
- **Audience**: GitLab customers
- **Purpose**: For the customer to understand their DevOps status compared to top-performing instances.
- **Metrics**: 10 metrics across Use Cases, displayed as a % of users who have utilized a feature in the past month, compared to how top-performing instances utilized that feature. 
[Handbook Link](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2021/12/15/devops-adoption/#devops-score)

## Account Health

Account Health is an aggregation of key metrics to provide insights to assist with identifying:

- Expansion opportunities — revenue related, product use cases, and within different teams
- Risks — identify product adoption weaknesses, lack of communication, or missed customer outcomes
- Adoption journey — identify areas where the customer could be coached on best practices for better utilizing GitLab
- EBRs and discussion topics — highlight areas of focus for EBRs and customer cadences such as usage reporting

For instance, the customer may have deployed all their subscription licenses but aren’t actively using them; or they may be using them, but all their Support tickets are very negative.

Looking through just one lens provides a limited view. In a happier example, a customer may have deployed most of their licenses, be heavily using all the current tier’s high end features,
and achieving positive business outcomes (PBOs). In this case, metrics indicate expansion opportunities. We will need to **PROVE** value to the customer and ourselves:

**P.R.O.V.E.**

* **Product**: License activation + User engagement + Use Case: 50% weighting
* **Risk**: CSM Sentiment + Opportunity Renewal risks: 0-50%
* **Outcomes**: Success Plan + Verified Outcomes: 20%
* **Voice of the customer** (VoC): Support + Surveys: 10%
* **Engagement**: Customer Engagement + Executive Sponsorship + Events + Certifications: 20%


![Customer Health Vision](/handbook/customer-success/vision/images/customer-health-score-vision.jpeg)
<br><br>

### PROVE Components

| **Category**   | **Health Measure**         | **Example**                                                  | **Why?**                                                     | **Metrics**                                                  | **Account Type** | **Maturity** |
| -------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------- | ------------ |
| **Product**    | License Activation         | The customer has assigned all licenses                                            | Has the customer deployed their licenses? This is an indicator of seat reduction / expansion                      | License utilization                                          | All              | 100%          |
| **Product**    | User Engagement            | 73% of users are Monthly Active Users                                         | Are users logging in and using the product?                  | Unique Monthly Active Users / billable_user_count               | All              | 0%          |
| **Product**    | Adoption (Use Case)        | Use Case adoption                                            | Is the customer adopting use cases and progressing into “stickier” areas of GitLab? | SCM —> CI —> DevSecOps adoption                              | All              | 100%          |
| **Risk**       | CSM Sentiment              | The sentiment as determined by the CSM, if applicable        | What has the CSM determined from cadence calls?              | CSM Sentiment                                                | CSM owned        | 100%         |
| **Outcomes**   | ROI Success Plan           | Ensure the ROI Success Plan is aligned to customer           | A missing or poorly constructed Success Plan highlights a lack of alignment between GitLab and customer desired outcomes. | Green Success Plans Delivered EBRs                           | CSM owned        | 100%         |
| **Outcomes**   | Positive Business Outcomes (PBOs) | Completed Success Plan Objectives                            | Failed or missed PBOs can be a sign of distress; successful PBOs can highlight renewal expansion | Successfully completing at least one PBO each year            | CSM owned        | Not started  |
| **VoC**        | Support - Escalations      | Emergency support tickets                                      | Emergency support tickets can indicate unhappiness or frustration | Measure if there are Emergency support tickets in the last 90 days | All              | 100%  |
| **VoC**        | Support - Engagement       | Customer sends in tickets                                    | Determining if the customer is engaged with Support          | Retain existing methodology, but tweak to allow more tickets as a good thing | All              | 70%         |
| **VoC**        | Support - CSAT             | Customer completes CSAT surveys and provides feedback        | Is the customer giving feedback and what are the scores (response + outcomes) | Benchmark a minimum XX% response rate for green health and provide CSAT results to CSM | All              | Not started  |
| **VoC**        | NPS Surveys                | The customer responds to and provides high scores            | Because surveys are a good indicator of the customer’s perception of the product and company; this can | Survey responses rates + survey scores                       | All              | Not started  |
| **Engagement** | Engagement                 | Recency of CSM cadence call                                  | Lack of customer engagement                                  | Date of last CSM cadence call                                | CSM owned        | 100%         |
| **Engagement** | Executive Sponsorship      | Are stakeholders aligned and communicating?                  | Lack of alignment and communication can indicate a disconnect between execs and ROI | Recency of aligned stakeholder communication                 | CSM owned        | Not started  |
| **Engagement** | Events                     | Is the customer attending GitLab events?                     | Event attendance indicates customer engagement, dialogues with team members, and face-to-face interactions | TBD                                                          | All              | Not started  |
| **Engagement** | Certifications             | Are users within the account taking certifications? Are they maintaining their certifications? | Obtaining GitLab certifications is a positive for us and the customer; it also indicates their involvement in GitLab, knowledge of using GitLab, and provides an inference as an internal champion | TBC                                                          | All              | Not started  |

### Health Score Commentary and Uses

The Account Health Score does and will include many factors with different weightings per group and per individual measure with the goal being a multi-perspective approach, measuring what matters to the customer, and measuring the features that they have access to and can utilize. 

<u>Note</u>: if data is missing for any health measure, it is counted as `NULL` instead of a value (i.e., red).

<u>Tier-based Product Usage Data</u>: will evaluate the customer’s usage based on their current tier and feature access. For example, if a customer is on Premium, we will base their health on Premium-level features to understand their level of adoption. If their health is red or yellow, it signifies risk. If green, it can signify expansion or flat renewal.

<u>Leading and lagging indicators</u>: Some metrics are more leading or lagging indicators. While we will lean toward a predictive solution, lagging metrics are incorporated to assess past performance.

The following graph (Early Warning Segmentation Framework) is used to provide a framework for which strategy to use and which resources to leverage. Customers are grouped by their Account Health and growth potential. Renewal Operations Analysts will support the Field in triaging accounts to identify where to spend their time.

<br>
![Early Warning Segmentation Framework](images/early-warning-system-framework.jpeg)
<br>

# Success Criteria

For a fuller list of the project roadmap, see [Product Usage Data Roadmap](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_v4hxKdbL6--UjpjVdveGEGD_MjmUnBg0-OIU1R14m8/edit#slide=id.gbc45c07eca_0_135).

## FY22

- Basic Customer Health Scoring to describe the health of the customer at that point in time for 80%+ of customers
- Auto-enroll digital customers in campaigns based on usage
- Data is available to all GTM teams via Gainsight and Salesforce

## FY23

- Advanced metrics and methodology to move from reactive to proactive account management
- Identify protect/expand initiatives based on usage. If certain customers are underutilizing features, launch a protect CTA. If a customer is heavily using features, create an expand CTA.
- Enhanced renewal forecasting capabilities for SMB and potentially Mid-Market segments where reps have a view 2+ quarters out into their renewals with product usage insights and ability to select which levers to pull for a better customer experience

# Methodology 

## Health scoring

### Starting point

The first approach was a calculation of multiple metrics to create a “black box” approach. This was neither helpful to the end user (CSMs, SAs, sales reps), it was not easy to understand the calculation, the Gainsight logic was inadequate, and was not action-oriented to know *which* aspects of the use case were great and which needed improvement.

### Next iteration

The next iteration is a model where each use case incorporates X number of metrics and each metric is valued from 0-1.0. Then, the individual scores can then be summed to an aggregated score for that use case. Below is an *example* of what *could* be done for transparently measuring health.
<br>
![CI Health Scoring](images/ci-health-scoring.jpeg)
<br>

Example: CI has ten individual features with one metric per feature and each metric is equally weighted at 10. Each metric can score between 0-10 with some being zero, some being 5, and others being 10. The aggregate score would be 65 out of 100. The CSM could then evaluate each metric to see which features are being adopted and which ones need improvement.



While the product usage health will be summarized, a separate health view will allow users to view each individual component. This allows users to quickly skim overall health and, when applicable, to look into the details to see which features are not being utilized.

### Health scoring for accounts with multiple production instances

#### Problem
 
When an account has multiple GitLab instances identified as Production, (Instructions on how to [Update Self-Managed Instance Type](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/customer-success/product-usage-data/using-product-usage-data-in-gainsight/#updating-self-managed-instance-type)) the Product Usage health measure uses the most recently updated instance. That means the Product Usage health measure lacks precision on which instance it scores. Note: this is less than 5% of the time because the vast majority of accounts have a single production instance.

#### Solution

[Video Instructions](https://youtu.be/N0JUABX88Hg) on how to update instance data in Gainsight to include only one instance in Product Usage health measure.

1. Go to the account C360 and scroll to the Instance and Namespace Details Section. 
2. Scroll right to see the “Included in Health Measure” column. 
3. To exclude instances, click the three dots, Edit, and then select “Opt-Out” in the Included in Health Measures section. NOTE: Make sure you select “Opt-Out” rather than null, or the system will overwrite your update. Then click Update.
4. For the instances you want included in the health score, click on the three dots, Edit, and click “Included in health Score.” Then click Update.

Important to Note: 
1. Best practice is to only have ONE instance marked as "Included in Health Measure" 
2. All Production instances are automatically marked "Included in Health Measure" unless they are marked "Opt-Out" 
3. Select "Opt-Out" rather than null, or the system may overwrite your update.

## Predictive Analytics

Predictive Analytics is not a silver bullet. It will not cure all that ails you. Instead, this methodology is probabilistic and incorporates health measures to correlate the typical journey of “healthy” customers (expand and renew) with “unhealthy” customers (downgrade and churn). For example, a healthy sales pipeline has few pushes (moving the close date) and progressively moves through stages (not stale). Conversely, an opportunity with multiple pushes and stuck in stages for long periods of time is an indicator of risk.

| Prediction Type | Model Name | Status | Description | 
| :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | 
| Expansion | [Propensity To Expand (PTE)](https://internal-handbook.gitlab.io/handbook/sales/propensity_models/) | Active | Predicts whether an account is likely to expand (increase ARR) |
| Churn and Contraction | [Propensity To Churn or Contract (PTC)](https://internal-handbook.gitlab.io/handbook/sales/propensity_models/) | Active | Predicts whether an account is likely to churn or contract (decrease ARR) |  

### Appetite and Ability to Expand (Seats, Uptier)

Triggers will be used for different events: 

- A call to action to prevent downgrade because of lack of license utilization
- Heavy CI usage indicates they are meeting their business outcome and are ready to talk about the next stage, or 
- The customer has very little growth but is successful and we should aim for a flat renewal. 

Each of these metrics will be used to guide the account team in knowing when a customer is approaching the next or has met their milestone. The items listed below are examples of what an account team could look at to glean insights for a productive customer conversation.

#### Seat Expansion

##### License Utilization

1. Rapidly consuming licenses (measuring growth rates)
2. 90% license utilization

##### User Activity

1. High UMAU (above 80%)

#### Uptier

1. Desire for guest users
   1. They purchased a high number of Premium licenses but could move many to Guest
1. Consuming Free/Premium features that lead to Ultimate
   1. DevSecOps
   1. Agile Planning
1. Success Plan objectives are aligned with Ultimate-level feature sets
   1. DevSecOps
   1. Agile Planning

#### Seat Reduction

1. Less than 75% license utilization (excludes onboarding customers)
2. Consistent reduction in activated user count (number of deactivated users M-o-M)
3. CSM renewal risk == Seat Loss

#### Downtier

1. Not using Ultimate-level features
   1. DevSecOps
   1. Agile Planning
1. Success Plan objectives not aligned with Ultimate-level feature sets
1. CSM renewal risk == downtier

#### Churn

Indicators from Seat Reduction or Downtier above plus:

##### Customer Experience

1. Customer has gone dark
2. Loss of internal champion/stakeholder
3. CSM renewal risk == churn

##### Renewal Opportunities

1. Stages not progressing
2. Pushes
3. Lack of Oppty customer activity

## Segmentation

Segmentation will primarily follow the level of service (CSM Priority 1, 2, 3), and secondarily other factors as listed below.

1. CSM-managed vs. non CSM-managed
2. Segmentation: Enterprise, Mid-Market, SMB
3. Geographical
4. Divisional (WW or Public Sector)

# References

- [MVC Early Warning System epic](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-com/sales-team/field-operations/-/epics/25)
- [Customer Analytics Roadmap (internal-only document)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_v4hxKdbL6--UjpjVdveGEGD_MjmUnBg0-OIU1R14m8/edit#slide=id.gb3e6c0a32e_0_5) (slide deck)
- [Project Compass #3 - GTM Product Analytics - Improve product and customer analytics to capture richer data about users](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-com/-/epics/1246)
- [Project Compass #15 - Build analytics capabilities and CRM integration to improve cross-sell/up-sell](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-com/-/epics/1247)
- [Renewal Operations Strategy (internal only document)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cQGAzrpdZyqq7P5X40AZrh-HLvv2PwmHfHcv3iq_2M8/edit#)

Commit message:

Add adoption scoring to list of metrics.

sites/handbook/source/handbook/customer-success/customer-health-scoring/index.html.md, after:

---
layout: handbook-page-toc
title: "Customer Health Scoring"
description: "Customer Account Scoring overview and methodology framework to improve our understanding of the customer's journey and their ROI attainment."
---

## On this page
{:.no_toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

- TOC
{:toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}


{::options parse_block_html="true" /}

---


# Vision

The Customer Health Score assists GitLab Account Teams in understanding the relative health of customers for the purposes of predicting expansion, retention, and churn through understanding the customer's product adoption, risks, and engaging with GitLab. The initial versions will focus more on adoption. Over time, we will iterate to make them more predictive as we validate leading indicators.

## Scoring Methodologies

Product usage data informs three different scores. They each have a distinct and separate purpose, are meant for different audiences, and use different metrics.

### Customer Health Score
- **Audience**: Internal GitLab Teams
- **Purpose**: To enable the team in understanding the relative health of customers, identify risks, manage renewal likelihood, and identify expansion opportunities and why. 
- **Metrics**: Account Health is an aggregation of key metrics for a multi-perspective view of the customer. For detail, see [Account Health Predictor](/handbook/customer-success/customer-health-scoring/#account-health-predictor) above.

### Platform Value Score
- **Audience**: Internal GitLab Teams
- **Purpose**: Each customer will have a single Platform Value Score used to understand how much value the customer is currently receiving from Gitlab as a Platform.
- **Metrics**: 3–7 product usage metrics per Use Case, using Red/Yellow/Green scoring. The metrics will roll up into a score for each Use Case, and the Use Case scores will roll up to the Platform Value Score. 
- NOTE: No handbook page available yet as this is a work in progress in FY23-Q3.

### Use Case Adoption Scorecards
- **Audience**: Internal GitLab Teams **and** customers
- **Purpose**: Each customer will have a scorecard per use case (SCM, CI, CD...) to highlight their adoption progress to celebrate wins and identify areas for improvement.
- **Metrics**: 3–7 product usage metrics per Use Case, using Red/Yellow/Green scoring. These are then used to create a deck highlighting the level per use case adoption.
- [Use Case Adoption Scoring](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/customer-success/product-usage-data/maturity-scoring/)

### DevOps Score 
- **Audience**: GitLab customers
- **Purpose**: For the customer to understand their DevOps status compared to top-performing instances.
- **Metrics**: 10 metrics across Use Cases, displayed as a % of users who have utilized a feature in the past month, compared to how top-performing instances utilized that feature. 
[Handbook Link](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2021/12/15/devops-adoption/#devops-score)

## Account Health

Account Health is an aggregation of key metrics to provide insights to assist with identifying:

- Expansion opportunities — revenue related, product use cases, and within different teams
- Risks — identify product adoption weaknesses, lack of communication, or missed customer outcomes
- Adoption journey — identify areas where the customer could be coached on best practices for better utilizing GitLab
- EBRs and discussion topics — highlight areas of focus for EBRs and customer cadences such as usage reporting

For instance, the customer may have deployed all their subscription licenses but aren’t actively using them; or they may be using them, but all their Support tickets are very negative.

Looking through just one lens provides a limited view. In a happier example, a customer may have deployed most of their licenses, be heavily using all the current tier’s high end features,
and achieving positive business outcomes (PBOs). In this case, metrics indicate expansion opportunities. We will need to **PROVE** value to the customer and ourselves:

**P.R.O.V.E.**

* **Product**: License activation + User engagement + Use Case: 50% weighting
* **Risk**: CSM Sentiment + Opportunity Renewal risks: 0-50%
* **Outcomes**: Success Plan + Verified Outcomes: 20%
* **Voice of the customer** (VoC): Support + Surveys: 10%
* **Engagement**: Customer Engagement + Executive Sponsorship + Events + Certifications: 20%


![Customer Health Vision](/handbook/customer-success/vision/images/customer-health-score-vision.jpeg)
<br><br>

### PROVE Components

| **Category**   | **Health Measure**         | **Example**                                                  | **Why?**                                                     | **Metrics**                                                  | **Account Type** | **Maturity** |
| -------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------- | ------------ |
| **Product**    | License Activation         | The customer has assigned all licenses                                            | Has the customer deployed their licenses? This is an indicator of seat reduction / expansion                      | License utilization                                          | All              | 100%          |
| **Product**    | User Engagement            | 73% of users are Monthly Active Users                                         | Are users logging in and using the product?                  | Unique Monthly Active Users / billable_user_count               | All              | 0%          |
| **Product**    | Adoption (Use Case)        | Use Case adoption                                            | Is the customer adopting use cases and progressing into “stickier” areas of GitLab? | SCM —> CI —> DevSecOps adoption                              | All              | 100%          |
| **Risk**       | CSM Sentiment              | The sentiment as determined by the CSM, if applicable        | What has the CSM determined from cadence calls?              | CSM Sentiment                                                | CSM owned        | 100%         |
| **Outcomes**   | ROI Success Plan           | Ensure the ROI Success Plan is aligned to customer           | A missing or poorly constructed Success Plan highlights a lack of alignment between GitLab and customer desired outcomes. | Green Success Plans Delivered EBRs                           | CSM owned        | 100%         |
| **Outcomes**   | Positive Business Outcomes (PBOs) | Completed Success Plan Objectives                            | Failed or missed PBOs can be a sign of distress; successful PBOs can highlight renewal expansion | Successfully completing at least one PBO each year            | CSM owned        | Not started  |
| **VoC**        | Support - Escalations      | Emergency support tickets                                      | Emergency support tickets can indicate unhappiness or frustration | Measure if there are Emergency support tickets in the last 90 days | All              | 100%  |
| **VoC**        | Support - Engagement       | Customer sends in tickets                                    | Determining if the customer is engaged with Support          | Retain existing methodology, but tweak to allow more tickets as a good thing | All              | 70%         |
| **VoC**        | Support - CSAT             | Customer completes CSAT surveys and provides feedback        | Is the customer giving feedback and what are the scores (response + outcomes) | Benchmark a minimum XX% response rate for green health and provide CSAT results to CSM | All              | Not started  |
| **VoC**        | NPS Surveys                | The customer responds to and provides high scores            | Because surveys are a good indicator of the customer’s perception of the product and company; this can | Survey responses rates + survey scores                       | All              | Not started  |
| **Engagement** | Engagement                 | Recency of CSM cadence call                                  | Lack of customer engagement                                  | Date of last CSM cadence call                                | CSM owned        | 100%         |
| **Engagement** | Executive Sponsorship      | Are stakeholders aligned and communicating?                  | Lack of alignment and communication can indicate a disconnect between execs and ROI | Recency of aligned stakeholder communication                 | CSM owned        | Not started  |
| **Engagement** | Events                     | Is the customer attending GitLab events?                     | Event attendance indicates customer engagement, dialogues with team members, and face-to-face interactions | TBD                                                          | All              | Not started  |
| **Engagement** | Certifications             | Are users within the account taking certifications? Are they maintaining their certifications? | Obtaining GitLab certifications is a positive for us and the customer; it also indicates their involvement in GitLab, knowledge of using GitLab, and provides an inference as an internal champion | TBC                                                          | All              | Not started  |

### Health Score Commentary and Uses

The Account Health Score does and will include many factors with different weightings per group and per individual measure with the goal being a multi-perspective approach, measuring what matters to the customer, and measuring the features that they have access to and can utilize. 

<u>Note</u>: if data is missing for any health measure, it is counted as `NULL` instead of a value (i.e., red).

<u>Tier-based Product Usage Data</u>: will evaluate the customer’s usage based on their current tier and feature access. For example, if a customer is on Premium, we will base their health on Premium-level features to understand their level of adoption. If their health is red or yellow, it signifies risk. If green, it can signify expansion or flat renewal.

<u>Leading and lagging indicators</u>: Some metrics are more leading or lagging indicators. While we will lean toward a predictive solution, lagging metrics are incorporated to assess past performance.

The following graph (Early Warning Segmentation Framework) is used to provide a framework for which strategy to use and which resources to leverage. Customers are grouped by their Account Health and growth potential. Renewal Operations Analysts will support the Field in triaging accounts to identify where to spend their time.

<br>
![Early Warning Segmentation Framework](images/early-warning-system-framework.jpeg)
<br>

# Success Criteria

For a fuller list of the project roadmap, see [Product Usage Data Roadmap](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_v4hxKdbL6--UjpjVdveGEGD_MjmUnBg0-OIU1R14m8/edit#slide=id.gbc45c07eca_0_135).

## FY22

- Basic Customer Health Scoring to describe the health of the customer at that point in time for 80%+ of customers
- Auto-enroll digital customers in campaigns based on usage
- Data is available to all GTM teams via Gainsight and Salesforce

## FY23

- Advanced metrics and methodology to move from reactive to proactive account management
- Identify protect/expand initiatives based on usage. If certain customers are underutilizing features, launch a protect CTA. If a customer is heavily using features, create an expand CTA.
- Enhanced renewal forecasting capabilities for SMB and potentially Mid-Market segments where reps have a view 2+ quarters out into their renewals with product usage insights and ability to select which levers to pull for a better customer experience

# Methodology 

## Health scoring

### Starting point

The first approach was a calculation of multiple metrics to create a “black box” approach. This was neither helpful to the end user (CSMs, SAs, sales reps), it was not easy to understand the calculation, the Gainsight logic was inadequate, and was not action-oriented to know *which* aspects of the use case were great and which needed improvement.

### Next iteration

The next iteration is a model where each use case incorporates X number of metrics and each metric is valued from 0-1.0. Then, the individual scores can then be summed to an aggregated score for that use case. Below is an *example* of what *could* be done for transparently measuring health.
<br>
![CI Health Scoring](images/ci-health-scoring.jpeg)
<br>

Example: CI has ten individual features with one metric per feature and each metric is equally weighted at 10. Each metric can score between 0-10 with some being zero, some being 5, and others being 10. The aggregate score would be 65 out of 100. The CSM could then evaluate each metric to see which features are being adopted and which ones need improvement.



While the product usage health will be summarized, a separate health view will allow users to view each individual component. This allows users to quickly skim overall health and, when applicable, to look into the details to see which features are not being utilized.

### Health scoring for accounts with multiple production instances

#### Problem
 
When an account has multiple GitLab instances identified as Production, (Instructions on how to [Update Self-Managed Instance Type](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/customer-success/product-usage-data/using-product-usage-data-in-gainsight/#updating-self-managed-instance-type)) the Product Usage health measure uses the most recently updated instance. That means the Product Usage health measure lacks precision on which instance it scores. Note: this is less than 5% of the time because the vast majority of accounts have a single production instance.

#### Solution

[Video Instructions](https://youtu.be/N0JUABX88Hg) on how to update instance data in Gainsight to include only one instance in Product Usage health measure.

1. Go to the account C360 and scroll to the Instance and Namespace Details Section. 
2. Scroll right to see the “Included in Health Measure” column. 
3. To exclude instances, click the three dots, Edit, and then select “Opt-Out” in the Included in Health Measures section. NOTE: Make sure you select “Opt-Out” rather than null, or the system will overwrite your update. Then click Update.
4. For the instances you want included in the health score, click on the three dots, Edit, and click “Included in health Score.” Then click Update.

Important to Note: 
1. Best practice is to only have ONE instance marked as "Included in Health Measure" 
2. All Production instances are automatically marked "Included in Health Measure" unless they are marked "Opt-Out" 
3. Select "Opt-Out" rather than null, or the system may overwrite your update.

## Predictive Analytics

Predictive Analytics is not a silver bullet. It will not cure all that ails you. Instead, this methodology is probabilistic and incorporates health measures to correlate the typical journey of “healthy” customers (expand and renew) with “unhealthy” customers (downgrade and churn). For example, a healthy sales pipeline has few pushes (moving the close date) and progressively moves through stages (not stale). Conversely, an opportunity with multiple pushes and stuck in stages for long periods of time is an indicator of risk.

| Prediction Type | Model Name | Status | Description | 
| :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | 
| Expansion | [Propensity To Expand (PTE)](https://internal-handbook.gitlab.io/handbook/sales/propensity_models/) | Active | Predicts whether an account is likely to expand (increase ARR) |
| Churn and Contraction | [Propensity To Churn or Contract (PTC)](https://internal-handbook.gitlab.io/handbook/sales/propensity_models/) | Active | Predicts whether an account is likely to churn or contract (decrease ARR) |  

### Appetite and Ability to Expand (Seats, Uptier)

Triggers will be used for different events: 

- A call to action to prevent downgrade because of lack of license utilization
- Heavy CI usage indicates they are meeting their business outcome and are ready to talk about the next stage, or 
- The customer has very little growth but is successful and we should aim for a flat renewal. 

Each of these metrics will be used to guide the account team in knowing when a customer is approaching the next or has met their milestone. The items listed below are examples of what an account team could look at to glean insights for a productive customer conversation.

#### Seat Expansion

##### License Utilization

1. Rapidly consuming licenses (measuring growth rates)
2. 90% license utilization

##### User Activity

1. High UMAU (above 80%)

#### Uptier

1. Desire for guest users
   1. They purchased a high number of Premium licenses but could move many to Guest
1. Consuming Free/Premium features that lead to Ultimate
   1. DevSecOps
   1. Agile Planning
1. Success Plan objectives are aligned with Ultimate-level feature sets
   1. DevSecOps
   1. Agile Planning

#### Seat Reduction

1. Less than 75% license utilization (excludes onboarding customers)
2. Consistent reduction in activated user count (number of deactivated users M-o-M)
3. CSM renewal risk == Seat Loss

#### Downtier

1. Not using Ultimate-level features
   1. DevSecOps
   1. Agile Planning
1. Success Plan objectives not aligned with Ultimate-level feature sets
1. CSM renewal risk == downtier

#### Churn

Indicators from Seat Reduction or Downtier above plus:

##### Customer Experience

1. Customer has gone dark
2. Loss of internal champion/stakeholder
3. CSM renewal risk == churn

##### Renewal Opportunities

1. Stages not progressing
2. Pushes
3. Lack of Oppty customer activity

## Segmentation

Segmentation will primarily follow the level of service (CSM Priority 1, 2, 3), and secondarily other factors as listed below.

1. CSM-managed vs. non CSM-managed
2. Segmentation: Enterprise, Mid-Market, SMB
3. Geographical
4. Divisional (WW or Public Sector)

# References

- [MVC Early Warning System epic](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-com/sales-team/field-operations/-/epics/25)
- [Customer Analytics Roadmap (internal-only document)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_v4hxKdbL6--UjpjVdveGEGD_MjmUnBg0-OIU1R14m8/edit#slide=id.gb3e6c0a32e_0_5) (slide deck)
- [Project Compass #3 - GTM Product Analytics - Improve product and customer analytics to capture richer data about users](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-com/-/epics/1246)
- [Project Compass #15 - Build analytics capabilities and CRM integration to improve cross-sell/up-sell](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-com/-/epics/1247)
- [Renewal Operations Strategy (internal only document)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cQGAzrpdZyqq7P5X40AZrh-HLvv2PwmHfHcv3iq_2M8/edit#)
