---
layout: markdown_page
title: "Google Cloud Next 2022 GitLab Newsletter Promotion"
description: "The Google Cloud Next 2022 GitLab Newsletter Promotion begins on 11 October 2022 at 7:00am UTC and ends on 24 October 2022 at6:59am UTC."
---
## Google Cloud Next 2022 GitLab Newsletter Promotion - Official Rules

NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. MAKING A PURCHASE OR PAYMENT OF ANY KIND WILL NOT INCREASE YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. VOID WHERE PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED BY LAW. 

1. PROMOTION DESCRIPTION: The Google Cloud Next 2022 GitLab Newsletter Promotion ("Promotional Game") begins on 11 October 2022 at 12:00am PT (7:00am UTC) and ends on 24 October 2022 at 11:59pm PT (6:59am UTC) (the "Promotion Period"). The sponsor of this Promotional Game is GitLab, Inc. ("Sponsor"). By participating in the Promotional Game, each Entrant unconditionally accepts and agrees to comply with and abide by these Official Rules and the decisions of Sponsor, which shall be final and binding in all respects. Sponsor is responsible for the collection, submission or processing of Entries and the overall administration of the Promotional Game. Entrants should look solely to Sponsor with any questions, comments or problems related to the Promotional Game. Sponsor may be reached by email at mlee@gitlab.com during the Promotion Period. This Promotional Game is in no way endorsed or administered by Google Cloud. 

2. ELIGIBILITY: Open to legal residents worldwide, who are at the age of majority in their locale, in attendance at the virtual Google Cloud Next 2022 conference between 11 October 2022 and 14 October 2022, who sign up to receive the GitLab newsletter, and register to participate in the Promotional Game (the "Entrant"). Residents of the following countries are not eligible to participate in this Promotional Game: Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Sweden, Switzerland, Belarus, the Crimean Region of the Ukraine, Belarus, China, Cuba, India, Iran, Israel, Russia, Sudan, Syria, Mexico, North Korea, Zimbabwe, Yemen, Venezuela, Uganda, Somalia, Pakistan, Panama, Nicaragua, Myanmar (Burma), Madagascar, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Laos, Iraq, Iran, Haiti, Guinea Bissau, Guinea, Eritrea, Equatorial Guinea, Dominican Republic, Cuba, Congo, Dem. Rep., Congo (Brazzaville), Comoros, Colombia, Chad, Central African Republic, Cayman Islands, Cambodia, Burundi, Burkina Faso, Benin, Belaur, Barbados, Bahamas, and the Province of Quebec in Canada, (for clarity, all countries in Africa and the Middle East); or any country subject to asset freeze sanctions imposed by the United Kingdom, the European Union or the United States of America. Sponsor, and their respective parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, distributors, retailers, sales representatives, advertising and promotion agencies and each of their respective officers, directors and employees (the "Promotion Entities"), are ineligible to enter the Promotional Game or win a prize. Household Members and Immediate Family Members of such individuals are also not eligible to enter or win. "Household Members" shall mean those people who share the same residence at least three months a year. "Immediate Family Members" shall mean parents, step-parents, legal guardians, children, step-children, siblings, step-siblings, or spouses. This Promotional Game is subject to all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations and is void where prohibited or restricted by law. 

3. PRIZES: Six (6) winners will each receive one (1) Sonos Roam Portable Speaker (approximate retail value or "ARV": USD $179.00). Total ARV of all prizes: USD $1,074.00. Only one prize per person and per household will be awarded. Gift cards and gift certificates are subject to the terms and conditions of the issuer. Prizes cannot be transferred, redeemed for cash or substituted by winner. Sponsor reserves the right in its sole and absolute discretion to award a substitute prize of equal or greater value if a prize described in these Official Rules is unavailable or cannot be awarded, in whole or in part, for any reason. The ARV of the prize represents Sponsor's good faith determination. That determination is final and binding and cannot be appealed. If the actual value of the prize turns out to be less than the stated ARV, the difference will not be awarded in cash. Sponsor makes no representation or warranty concerning the appearance, safety or performance of any prize awarded. Restrictions, conditions, and limitations may apply. Sponsor will not replace any lost or stolen prize items. This Promotional Game is open to legal residents worldwide, except for residents of the countries identified above in Section 2, and Prize will only be awarded and/or delivered to addresses within said locations. All federal, state and/or local taxes, fees, and surcharges are the sole responsibility of the prize winner. Failure to comply with the Official Rules will result in forfeiture of the prize. 

4. HOW TO ENTER: Enter the Promotional Game during the Promotion Period online by visiting: https://page.gitlab.com/gitlab-at-google-cloud-next.html, and completing the entry form to register to participate in the Promotion and/or to sign up to receive the GitLab newsletter. Automated or robotic Entries submitted by individuals or organizations will be disqualified. Internet entry must be made by the Entrant. Any attempt by Entrant to obtain more than the stated number of Entries by using multiple/different email addresses, identities, registrations, logins or any other methods, including, but not limited to, commercial contest/Promotional Game subscription notification and/or entering services, will void Entrant's Entries and that Entrant may be disqualified. Final eligibility for the award of any prize is subject to eligibility verification as set forth below. All Entries must be posted by the end of the Promotion Period in order to participate. Sponsor's database clock will be the official timekeeper for this Promotional Game. 

5. WINNER SELECTION: The Winner(s) of the Promotional Game will be selected in a random drawing from among all eligible Entries received throughout the Promotion Period. The random drawing will be conducted on or about 26 October 2022 by Sponsor or its designated representatives, whose decisions are final. Odds of winning will vary depending on the number of eligible Entries received.

6. WINNER NOTIFICATION: Winner will be notified by email at the email address provided in the Entry Information after the random drawing on or about 26 October 2022. Potential Winer must accept a prize by email as direct by Sponsor within 10 days of notification. Sponsor is not responsbile for any delay or failure to receive notification for any reason, including inactive email account(s), technical difficulties associated therewith, or Winner's failure to adequately monitor any email account. Any winner notification not responded to or returned as undeliverable may result in prize forfeiture. The potential prize winner may be required to sign and return an affidavity of eligibility and release of liability, and a Publicity Release (collectively "the Prize Claim Douments"). No substitution or transfer of a prize is permitted except by Sponsor.

7. PRIVACY: Any personal information supplied by you will be subject to the privacy policy of the Sponsor posted at about.gitlab.com/privacy. By entering the Promotional Game, you grant Sponsor permission to share your email address and any other personally identifiable information with the other Promotional Game Entities for the purpose of administration and prize fulfillment, including use in a publicly available Winners list.

8. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY: Sponsor assumes no responsibility or liability for (a) any incorrect or inaccurate entry information, or for any faulty or failed electronic data transmissions; (b) any unauthorized access to, or theft, destruction or alteration of entries at any point in the operation of this Promotional Game; (c) any technical malfunction, failure, error, omission, interruption, deletion, defect, delay in operation or communications line failure, regardless of cause, with regard to any equipment, systems, networks, lines, satellites, servers, camera, computers or providers utilized in any aspect of the operation of the Promotional Game; (d) inaccessibility or unavailability of any network or wireless service, the Internet or website or any combination thereof; (e) suspended or discontinued Internet, wireless or landline phone service; or (f) any injury or damage to participant's or to any other person’s computer or mobile device which may be related to or resulting from any attempt to participate in the Promotional Game or download of any materials in the Promotional Game. If, for any reason, the Promotional Game is not capable of running as planned for reasons which may include without limitation, infection by computer virus, tampering, unauthorized intervention, fraud, technical failures, or any other causes which may corrupt or affect the administration, security, fairness, integrity or proper conduct of this Promotional Game, the Sponsor reserves the right at its sole discretion to cancel, terminate, modify or suspend the Promotional Game in whole or in part. In such event, Sponsor shall immediately suspend all drawings and prize awards, and Sponsor reserves the right to award any remaining prizes (up to the total ARV as set forth in these Official Rules) in a manner deemed fair and equitable by Sponsor. Sponsor and Released Parties shall not have any further liability to any participant in connection with the Promotional Game.

9. WINNER LIST/OFFICIAL RULES: To view these Official Rules, visit https://about.gitlab.com/community/sweepstakes/. A copy of the winner’s list can be requested by email from mlee@gitlab.com within sixty (60) days of the winner selected being completed. 

0. SPONSOR: GitLab, Inc., 268 Bush Street, #350, San Francisco, CA 94104, mlee@gitlab.com. Sponsor is responsible for the collection, submission or processing of Entries and the overall administration of the Promotional Game. Entrants should contact Sponsor with any questions, comments or problems related to the Promotional Game. The Promotional Game may be advertised through social media platforms. In such instances, the Promotional Game is in no way sponsored, endorsed, or administered by, or associated with Twitter, or LinkedIn, or other such social media platform. By entering this Promotional Game, you understand that you are providing your information to the Sponsor and not to Twitter or LinkedIn, or other such social media platform, and you agree to release and hold harmless the social media platform(s) from any and all claims related to your entry in the Promotional Game.
