---
layout: markdown_page
title: "Open Source Summit 2022 Code Challenge - Official Rules"
description: " The Open Source Summit 2022 Code Challenge begins on 21 June 2022 and ends on 23 June 2022."
---

## Open Source Summit 2022 Code Challenge - Official Rules

NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. MAKING A PURCHASE OR PAYMENT OF ANY KIND WILL NOT INCREASE YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. VOID WHERE PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED BY LAW.  
 
1.  PROMOTION DESCRIPTION: The Open Source Summit 2022 Code Challenge ("Promotional Game") begins on 21 June 2022 at 10:35 am US Central Time and ends on 23 June 2022 at 1:00 pm US Central Time (the "Promotion Period").  

The sponsor of this Promotional Game is GitLab, Inc. ("Sponsor"). By participating in the Promotional Game, each Entrant unconditionally accepts and agrees to comply with and abide by these Official Rules and the decisions of Sponsor, which shall be final and binding in all respects. Sponsor is responsible for the collection, submission or processing of Entries and the overall administration of the Promotional Game. Entrants should look solely to Sponsor with any questions, comments or problems related to the Promotional Game. Sponsor may be reached by email at boleary@gitlab.com during the Promotion Period.  

2.  ELIGIBILITY: Open to legal residents worldwide in attendance at the Open Source Summit 2022 event in Austin, Texas, between 21-23 June 2022, who have a GitLab.com login, and who are at the age of majority in their locale (the "Entrant"). Residents of the following countries are not eligible to participate in this Promotional Game: Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Sweden, Switzerland, Belarus, the Crimean Region of the Ukraine, Belarus, China, Cuba, India, Iran, Russia, Sudan, Syria, Mexico, North Korea, Zimbabwe, Yemen, Venezuela, Uganda, Somalia, Panama, Nicaragua, Myanmar (Burma), Madagascar, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Laos, Iraq, Iran, Haiti, Guinea Bissau, Guinea, Eritrea, Equatorial Guinea, Dominican Republic, Cuba, Congo, Dem. Rep., Congo (Brazzaville), Comoros, Colombia, Chad, Central African Republic, Cayman Islands, Cambodia, Burundi, Burkina Faso, Benin, Belaur, Barbados, Bahamas, and the Province of Quebec in Canada; or any country subject to asset freeze sanctions imposed by the United Kingdom, the European Union or the United States of America. Sponsor, and their respective parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, distributors, retailers, sales representatives, advertising and promotion agencies and each of their respective officers, directors and employees (the "Promotion Entities"), are ineligible to enter the Promotional Game or win a prize. Household Members and Immediate Family Members of such individuals are also not eligible to enter or win. "Household Members" shall mean those people who share the same residence at least three months a year. "Immediate Family Members" shall mean parents, step-parents, legal guardians, children, step-children, siblings, step-siblings, or spouses. This Promotional Game is subject to all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations and is void where prohibited or restricted by law.
 
3. PRIZES: Entrants who correctly complete the assigned Action per Level(s) will receive the following prizes:

* Upon the completion of the Level 1 and Level 2 Actions combined, the first one-hundred and fifty (150) Entrants will each receive one (1) 5oz bottle of Garlic Hot Sauce  (approximate retail value "ARV": U.S. $2.50). All other Entrants will each receive a GitLab sticker (ARV: U.S. $2.50)
* Upon the completion of the Level 3 Action, the first one-hundred and fifty (150) Entrants will each receive one (1) TaCode Truck Coupon to redeem three (3) free tacos, (ARV: U.S. $9.50). All other Entrants who complete the Level 3 Action will each receive one (1) GitLab branded baseball hat. (ARV: U.S. $9.50)
* Upon the completion of the Level 4 Action, Entrants will each receive one (1) unique Digital Badge confirming their contribution and one (1) GitLab swag shop gift card (ARV: U.S. $25)

Only one prize per person, per Level completed, and per household will be awarded. Gift cards and gift certificates are subject to the terms and conditions of the issuer. Prizes cannot be transferred, redeemed for cash or substituted by winner. Sponsor reserves the right in its sole and absolute discretion to award a substitute prize of equal or greater value if a prize described in these Official Rules is unavailable or cannot be awarded, in whole or in part, for any reason. The Approximate Retail Value (ARV) of the prize represents Sponsor's good faith determination. That determination is final and binding and cannot be appealed. If the actual value of the prize turns out to be less than the stated ARV, the difference will not be awarded in cash. Sponsor makes no representation or warranty concerning the appearance, safety or performance of any prize awarded. Restrictions, conditions, and limitations may apply. Sponsor will not replace any lost or stolen prize items. 

This Promotional Game is open to legal residents worldwide, who are in attendance at the Open Source Summit 2022 Event in Austin, Texas, United States, except for residents of the countries identified above in Section 2, and Prizes will only be awarded to attendees of the Event that correctly complete the assigned Action per Level(s) identified in Section 4. All federal, state and/or local taxes, fees, and surcharges are the sole responsibility of the prize winner. Failure to comply with the Official Rules will result in forfeiture of the prize. 

4. HOW TO ENTER: Enter the Promotional Game during the Promotion Period online by completing the entry form, which can be found on the following website at [https://codechallenge.dev](https://codechallenge.dev). Entrants must have a GitLab account to participate. Once registered to participate, you will be prompted to sign-in to your GitLab account. You will then be presented with a screen requesting that the app Code Challenge be granted access  and you will be asked to authenticate your GitLab account using OpenID Connect. If you agree to allow access, click “Authorize”, and you will be prompted to complete the following actions in the order they appear below, using your GitLab source code management skills. Once you successfully complete a Level, you can proceed to the next Level: 

* Level 1 Action: Complete a merge request. Approximate time for completion, five (5) minutes.  Level 2 Action: Create a security scan. Approximate time for completion, thirty (30) minutes. 
* Level 3 Action: Solve a problem with the pipeline. Approximate time for completion, thirty (30) minutes. 
* Level 4 Action: Contribute a change to the GitLab product, via a merge request. Approximate time for completion, several hours. 

Automated or robotic Entries submitted by individuals or organizations will be disqualified. Internet entry must be made by the Entrant. Any attempt by Entrant to obtain more than the stated number of Entries by using multiple/different email addresses, identities, registrations, logins or any other methods, including, but not limited to, commercial contest/Promotional Game subscription notification and/or entering services, will void Entrant's Entries and that Entrant may be disqualified. Final eligibility for the award of any prize is subject to eligibility verification as set forth below. All Entries must be posted by the end of the Promotion Period in order to participate. Sponsor's database clock will be the official timekeeper for this Promotional Game. 

5. WINNER SELECTION: The Winner(s) of the Promotional Game will be selected based on successful completion of the assigned Action per Level(s), as set forth in Section 4. Final selection of the winner(s) will be made by Sponsor or its designated representatives, whose decisions are final.  

6. WINNER NOTIFICATION: Winner will be notified by codechallenge.dev and will see a green badge appear within their profile next to the respective level completed, at the time of task completion, or within a few minutes thereafter. Winner information will also be published on the winner leaderboard at the Event. Sponsor is not responsible for any delay or failure to receive notification for any reason, including inactive email account(s), technical difficulties associated therewith, or Winner’s failure to adequately monitor their profile or the winner leaderboard. 

Any winner notification not responded to or returned as undeliverable may result in prize forfeiture. The potential prize winner may be required to sign and return an affidavit of eligibility and release of liability, and a Publicity Release (collectively "the Prize Claim Documents"). No substitution or transfer of a prize is permitted except by Sponsor. 

7. PRIVACY: Any personal information supplied by you will be subject to the privacy policy of the Sponsor posted at [about.gitlab.com/privacy](about.gitlab.com/privacy). By entering the Promotional Game, you grant Sponsor permission to share your email address and any other personally identifiable information with the other Promotional Game Entities for the purpose of administration and prize fulfillment, including use in a publicly available Winners list.

8. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY: Sponsor assumes no responsibility or liability for (a) any incorrect or inaccurate entry information, or for any faulty or failed electronic data transmissions; (b) any unauthorized access to, or theft, destruction or alteration of entries at any point in the operation of this Promotional Game; (c) any technical malfunction, failure, error, omission, interruption, deletion, defect, delay in operation or communications line failure, regardless of cause, with regard to any equipment, systems, networks, lines, satellites, servers, camera, computers or providers utilized in any aspect of the operation of the Promotional Game; (d) inaccessibility or unavailability of any network or wireless service, the Internet or website or any combination thereof; (e) suspended or discontinued Internet, wireless or landline phone service; or (f) any injury or damage to participant's or to any other person’s computer or mobile device which may be related to or resulting from any attempt to participate in the Promotional Game or download of any materials in the Promotional Game.

If, for any reason, the Promotional Game is not capable of running as planned for reasons which may include without limitation, infection by computer virus, tampering, unauthorized intervention, fraud, technical failures, or any other causes which may corrupt or affect the administration, security, fairness, integrity or proper conduct of this Promotional Game, the Sponsor reserves the right at its sole discretion to cancel, terminate, modify or suspend the Promotional Game in whole or in part. In such event, Sponsor shall immediately suspend all drawings and prize awards, and Sponsor reserves the right to award any remaining prizes (up to the total ARV as set forth in these Official Rules) in a manner deemed fair and equitable by Sponsor. Sponsor and Released Parties shall not have any further liability to any participant in connection with the Promotional Game. 

9. WINNER LIST: To obtain a copy of the winner’s list, please email [boleary@gitlab.com](mailto:boleary@gitlab.com) between 23 June 2022 and 22 August 2022. 

10. SPONSOR: GitLab, Inc., 268 Bush Street, #350, San Francisco, CA 94104, [boleary@gitlab.com](mailto:boleary@gitlab.com). 
