sites/handbook/source/handbook/customer-success/csm/risk-mitigation/index.html.md, before:

---
layout: handbook-page-toc
title: "CSM Strategies for Mitigating Risk In Customer Accounts"
description: "CSM Strategies for Mitigating Risk In Customer Accounts"
---
 
{:.no_toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

- TOC
{:toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

## **Types of Risk**
We have identified these as the most common types of risk in an account...

- **Cost/Budget**
   - Over License
   - Acquisition by larger entity
   - Downsizing (ie, Covid related)
- **ROI** (the customer doesn't feel they're getting value)
   - Not a priority
   - Lack of a plan
- **Competitive**
- **Product** (the product does do what they want or meets their needs or isn't mature enough)
- **Product Usage** (not using features & functionality they've paid for... Ex. Ultimate customer not using Secure)
- **Lack of Engagement/Loss of Champion**

## **Discovery into the Risk**
Based on the identified type of risk, the CSM can use some of the following questions to dig a bit deeper into the risk that may help identify mitigation options...

### Cost/Budget
   - Over License
      - `Do you know how to regularly prune inactive users?`
      - `Are you aware of our "User Cap" functionality?`
   - Acquisition by larger entity
      - `What is the integration plan and timeline with the new entity?`
      - `Will you be required to adopt their toolchain?`
      - `Do they have any existing MSA's in place that you'll be required to follow?`
      - `What tools does the new entity use?`
   - Downsizing (ie, Covid related)
      - `Do you anticipate a re-hiring of laid-off workers? If so, what's the timeline?`
   - `What's your fiscal year?`
   - `Have you budgeted for a certain number of users?`
   - `Do you have a growth plan for adding users over time?`
   - `Do you understand our licensing (ie, true-ups)?`

### ROI (the customer doesn't feel they're getting value)
   - Not a priority
      - `What are your devops priorities? How can we align with those?`
   - Lack of a plan
      - `How can we help you adopt greater use and derive greater value from GitLab?`
   - `Where do you feel you're getting the most value out of GitLab right now?`
   - `Where do you feel you're getting the least value out of GitLab right now?`

### Competitive
   - `Where do you feel other products are stronger or provide more value that GitLab?`
   - `Is this a pricing issue or a feature issue?`

### Product (the product does do what they want or meets their needs or isn't mature enough)
   - `Have you worked with your CSM on a prioritized list of features?`
   - `What feature(s) do you need **right now** to continue using GitLab?`
   - `Where do you see more opportunity to replace other tools if GitLab was more mature?`

### Product Usage (not using features & functionality in their license tier)
#### Ultimate Customer not using Secure
   1. `What kind of security tests are mandated or recommended within your organization?`
      - If they give any answer related to 3rd party products, just to question 2.
      - If they say “nothing is mandated/recommended”, ask “why”.
      - Adoption is shown to increase dramatically when leadership has bought into the solution and mandates usage.
   1. `What tools are you using to meet those mandates?` 
      - Third-party or custom-built in-house solutions? 
      - Are those specific tools mandated or do teams have the freedom to choose what they use?
   1. `Does your organization have a concrete shift-left or DevSecOps initiative in play?`
      - If “Yes”... “Tell me about that in terms of tooling and timelines.”
   1. `Are you aware that you can enforce compliance and security testing at the group level using our compliance frameworks?`
      - If they say “No”, arrange for enablement around compliance frameworks.
      - If they say “Yes”, follow up with “Are you using them to ensure security compliance?”


### Lack of Engagement/Loss of Champion
   - `Who is in charge of maintaining GitLab going forward?`
   - `Is there someone in your organization in charge of tool adoption or change management?`

## **Mitigation**
Once we know the risk and done some discovery into that risk, we have some options available to help mitigate that risk...

### Cost/Budget
- Explore cloud provider retiring spend
   - Lots of company's have minimum amounts they have to spend on the cloud every year to continue receiving discounts. They can use that spend on GitLab and we only take a 3% haircut to the cloud provider, but its better than 100% churn.
- Help identify other redundant tools that GitLab can replace.
   - Good areas to target are CI/CD tools, Package tools (eg. Artifactory) and Security tooling

### ROI
- This can be used as part of the cost/budget risk mitigation strategy.
- Product Marketing has been helpful in putting together generic ROI decks that can be tailored to a specific customer.
- Our marketing page has an ROI calculator... https://about.gitlab.com/calculator/

### Competitive
- Product Marketing has numerous battle cards based on the competitor [linked in our handbook](/handbook/sales/qualification-questions/#additional-questions-if).
- Seek help in the #competition Slack channel
- It's very important to determine the "why this competitor" instead of the "who is the competitor". The why is usually a cost or feature/functionality disparity. This will also help determine mitigation.

### Product
- Based on the discovery questions, identify the gaps.
- If it's a maturity problem, each product Stage has a roadmap page in the handbook. Product Managers are also generally very happy to get on a call with a customer to discuss the roadmap and to listen to the customer's needs and wants.
- If its a functionality gap, make sure that you've identified all the gaps and added the customer to the relevant issues using the [Product Feedback Template](/handbook/product/how-to-engage/#feedback-template). Its also a good opportunity to get a PM on a call with the customer to help advocate for these issues and get them on the roadmap.

### Product Usage (not using features & functionality in their license tier)
#### Ultimate Customer not using Secure
- Offer a [Secure Workshop](/handbook/customer-success/workshops/secure/)
- Try to come up with an adoption strategy that will get them to use more Secure
- Try to identify teams who are willing to test out Secure functionality at a small scale
- Try to engage with the Security team to find out what policies aren't being followed
- Try to engage with the Economic Buyer and let them know of the lack of adoption and your concerns
   - Encourage them to implement a top-down mandate to use more GitLab Secure

### Lack of engagement/Loss of champion
- For lack of engagement, please see our [Strategies for Non-Engaged Customers](/handbook/customer-success/csm/engagement/Non-engaged-customer-strategies/) handbook page.
- For a loss of champion, this will require more legwork from the CSM and SAL.
   - Identify who's replacing your champion and cultivate that relationship.
   - Find someone who loves GitLab and include them in future calls (if they aren't already).
   - Don't be afraid to leverage our executive contacts to reach out to the customer at the highest levels.
   - Even if a champion leaves, there's still going to be someone in a position of authority who can advocate for us. Find that person.

Commit message:

Updating the "Risk Mitigation" page with our new DevSecOps adoption path

sites/handbook/source/handbook/customer-success/csm/risk-mitigation/index.html.md, after:

---
layout: handbook-page-toc
title: "CSM Strategies for Mitigating Risk In Customer Accounts"
description: "CSM Strategies for Mitigating Risk In Customer Accounts"
---
 
{:.no_toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

- TOC
{:toc .hidden-md .hidden-lg}

## **Types of Risk**
We have identified these as the most common types of risk in an account...

- **Cost/Budget**
   - Over License
   - Acquisition by larger entity
   - Downsizing (ie, Covid related)
- **ROI** (the customer doesn't feel they're getting value)
   - Not a priority
   - Lack of a plan
- **Competitive**
- **Product** (the product does do what they want or meets their needs or isn't mature enough)
- **Product Usage** (not using features & functionality they've paid for... Ex. Ultimate customer not using Secure)
- **Lack of Engagement/Loss of Champion**

## **Discovery into the Risk**
Based on the identified type of risk, the CSM can use some of the following questions to dig a bit deeper into the risk that may help identify mitigation options...

### Cost/Budget
   - Over License
      - `Do you know how to regularly prune inactive users?`
      - `Are you aware of our "User Cap" functionality?`
   - Acquisition by larger entity
      - `What is the integration plan and timeline with the new entity?`
      - `Will you be required to adopt their toolchain?`
      - `Do they have any existing MSA's in place that you'll be required to follow?`
      - `What tools does the new entity use?`
   - Downsizing (ie, Covid related)
      - `Do you anticipate a re-hiring of laid-off workers? If so, what's the timeline?`
   - `What's your fiscal year?`
   - `Have you budgeted for a certain number of users?`
   - `Do you have a growth plan for adding users over time?`
   - `Do you understand our licensing (ie, true-ups)?`

### ROI (the customer doesn't feel they're getting value)
   - Not a priority
      - `What are your devops priorities? How can we align with those?`
   - Lack of a plan
      - `How can we help you adopt greater use and derive greater value from GitLab?`
   - `Where do you feel you're getting the most value out of GitLab right now?`
   - `Where do you feel you're getting the least value out of GitLab right now?`

### Competitive
   - `Where do you feel other products are stronger or provide more value that GitLab?`
   - `Is this a pricing issue or a feature issue?`

### Product (the product does do what they want or meets their needs or isn't mature enough)
   - `Have you worked with your CSM on a prioritized list of features?`
   - `What feature(s) do you need **right now** to continue using GitLab?`
   - `Where do you see more opportunity to replace other tools if GitLab was more mature?`

### Product Usage (not using features & functionality in their license tier)
#### Ultimate Customer not using Secure
We should generally begin by presenting our DevSecOps Maturity Score demonstrating to the customer their current usage of GitLab Secure. Once they understand the level to which they're using Secure, we can dig a bit deeper with some discovery questions...
   1. `What kind of security tests are mandated or recommended within your organization?`
      - If they give any answer related to 3rd party products, just to question 2.
      - If they say “nothing is mandated/recommended”, ask “why”.
      - Adoption is shown to increase dramatically when leadership has bought into the solution and mandates usage.
   1. `What tools are you using to meet those mandates?` 
      - Third-party or custom-built in-house solutions? 
      - Are those specific tools mandated or do teams have the freedom to choose what they use?
   1. `Does your organization have a concrete shift-left or DevSecOps initiative in play?`
      - If “Yes”... “Tell me about that in terms of tooling and timelines.”
   1. `Are you aware that you can enforce compliance and security testing at the group level using our compliance frameworks?`
      - If they say “No”, arrange for enablement around compliance frameworks.
      - If they say “Yes”, follow up with “Are you using them to ensure security compliance?”


### Lack of Engagement/Loss of Champion
   - `Who is in charge of maintaining GitLab going forward?`
   - `Is there someone in your organization in charge of tool adoption or change management?`

## **Mitigation**
Once we know the risk and done some discovery into that risk, we have some options available to help mitigate that risk...

### Cost/Budget
- Explore cloud provider retiring spend
   - Lots of company's have minimum amounts they have to spend on the cloud every year to continue receiving discounts. They can use that spend on GitLab and we only take a 3% haircut to the cloud provider, but its better than 100% churn.
- Help identify other redundant tools that GitLab can replace.
   - Good areas to target are CI/CD tools, Package tools (eg. Artifactory) and Security tooling

### ROI
- This can be used as part of the cost/budget risk mitigation strategy.
- Product Marketing has been helpful in putting together generic ROI decks that can be tailored to a specific customer.
- Our marketing page has an ROI calculator... https://about.gitlab.com/calculator/

### Competitive
- Product Marketing has numerous battle cards based on the competitor [linked in our handbook](/handbook/sales/qualification-questions/#additional-questions-if).
- Seek help in the #competition Slack channel
- It's very important to determine the "why this competitor" instead of the "who is the competitor". The why is usually a cost or feature/functionality disparity. This will also help determine mitigation.

### Product
- Based on the discovery questions, identify the gaps.
- If it's a maturity problem, each product Stage has a roadmap page in the handbook. Product Managers are also generally very happy to get on a call with a customer to discuss the roadmap and to listen to the customer's needs and wants.
- If its a functionality gap, make sure that you've identified all the gaps and added the customer to the relevant issues using the [Product Feedback Template](/handbook/product/how-to-engage/#feedback-template). Its also a good opportunity to get a PM on a call with the customer to help advocate for these issues and get them on the roadmap.

### Product Usage (not using features & functionality in their license tier)
#### Ultimate Customer not using Secure
- Offer a [Secure Workshop](/handbook/customer-success/workshops/secure/) if they don't understand the value of GitLab Secure.
- Present our [DevSecOps Adoption Path](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16dQw4KI-swX85G8utpdVUkT_BXGYsvtlu3Qb_-VP6Bg/edit#slide=id.g14710b3b06d_0_232) **[Internal Link]** to a Development Team Lead to help guide the customer to adopting GitLab Secure functionality. Presenting to the right persona is critical as they have the influence to enact/enforce the adoption path recommendations
- Try to identify teams who are willing to test out Secure functionality at a small scale
- Try to engage with the Security team to find out what policies aren't being followed
- Try to engage with the Economic Buyer and let them know of the lack of adoption (through a DevSecOps Maturity Score presentation) and your concerns
   - Encourage them to implement a top-down mandate to use more GitLab Secure
- Track adoption progress during cadence calls by presenting updated DevSecOps Maturity Scores and trend patterns
### Lack of engagement/Loss of champion
- For lack of engagement, please see our [Strategies for Non-Engaged Customers](/handbook/customer-success/csm/engagement/Non-engaged-customer-strategies/) handbook page.
- For a loss of champion, this will require more legwork from the CSM and SAL.
   - Identify who's replacing your champion and cultivate that relationship.
   - Find someone who loves GitLab and include them in future calls (if they aren't already).
   - Don't be afraid to leverage our executive contacts to reach out to the customer at the highest levels.
   - Even if a champion leaves, there's still going to be someone in a position of authority who can advocate for us. Find that person.
