sites/handbook/source/handbook/customer-success/tam/stage-enablement-and-expansion/index.html.md, before:

---
layout: handbook-page-toc
title: "Use-case Enablement and Expansion"
---

## Use-case Enablement & Use-case Expansion: The Two Adoption Motions

The CSM team's primary focus is to align with a customer's desired business outcomes, enable the customer in their current use case, and expand the customer's use case into new use-cases. We accomplish this through use-case adoption, which has two critical motions: enablement and expansion.

## Why does use-case enablement & expansion matter?

GitLab’s primary point of differentiation is our [single application](/handbook/product/single-application/) approach. As we continue to drive value in any given use-case or category, our first instinct should be to connect that feature or product experience to other parts of the GitLab product. These cross-use-case connections will drive differentiated customer value, and will be impossible for point product competitors to imitate.  

Our [mission as a customer success team](/handbook/customer-success/#mission-statement) is to create value for our customers. As a customer adopts additional [DevOps use-cases](/stages-devops-lifecycle/) with GitLab, they see an increased return-on-investment (ROI). They receive this increased ROI by [increasing operational efficiencies, delivering better products faster, and reducing security and compliance risk](/handbook/sales/command-of-the-message/#customer-value-drivers).

## What is the difference between use-case enablement & use-case expansion?

For the CSM team in driving use-case enablement, there are two critical motions:

1. Use-case Expansion: Driving expansion into new use-cases as a part of an account planning motion, in-line with the SAL or AE, as a means of ensuring the customer receives increasing ROI and creating happy customers that grow. This motion starts with a discovery process to open the door to a more in-depth discovery, with demos and [workshops](/handbook/customer-success/#customer-workshops) focused on value-positioning that lead to the customer saying 'yes' and agreeing to adopt that use-case. The latter part of an expansion play is the enablement of the use-case, as articulated below. A small pilot used to prove value of a use-case would still count as expansion, since the customer has not agreed to widespread adoption yet.
1. Use-case Enablement: Enabling on the use-cases into which a customer expresses readiness to expand, either through a successful Use-case Expansion or by internal realization or directive that they want to adopt a new use-case. CSMs enable customers by creating quick time to value, overcoming technical roadblocks, and ensuring stickiness. The CSM provides the customer with guidance on adopting use-cases to maximize value attribution and to align adoption to the customer's desired positive business outcomes. Enablement can occur via CSM-led webinars, digital content, and/or professional services. Beyond a small expansion pilot, organic use-case adoption that starts with a few teams, counts as enablement.

## Where do I track the use-case enablement and expansion?

1. Both of these CTAs are to be opened in the [ROI success plan](/handbook/customer-success/tam/success-plans/#roi-success-plan). Select the appropriate playbook from the playbook section at the CTA level before saving. This then opens the suggested steps as tasks associated with this CTA.

**Note:** To ensure that your use-case Enablement or use-case Expansion CTA is included in reporting, please make sure to attach a playbook to the CTA.

## When do I open a CTA/playbook?

1. Use-case Expansion: open the playbook when you plan to **start** the motion of exploring this expansion with the customer through the discovery process. This timing is incredibly key, since capturing the 'no' reasons helps articulate through data the roadblocks to expansion, and helps build scaleable plays for overcoming these roadblocks.  We expect to see more than 50% of our playbooks here being closed-no success for reasons of timing, internal challenges or otherwise!  The goal here is to continue exploring expansion with the customer as it pertains to furthering their business value with GitLab and collecting common reasons for no-success in order to establish more plays to help us overcome objections.
1. Use-case Enablement: open the playbook when the customer is ready to begin the process of adopting the use-case (vs when they say they intend to at a later time).

## When do I close a CTA/playbook?

1. Use-case Expansion: close the objective when the customer has agreed to enablement and pursuing adoption.
1. Use-case Enablement: close the objective once we have successfully completed the enablement activities listed in the playbook tasks. Note: This playbook is about delivering the required enablement and creating a roadmap for adoption, NOT achieving the adoption itself.  We use product usage data to determine adoption. 

### Key CSM Strategies

1. Improve onboarding experience
1. Improve the customer's time to value
1. Provide digital enablement for customer to use
1. Contribute knowledge to GitLab docs and blogs
1. Hold use-case expansion and enablement workshops and webinars
1. Ask effective discovery questions for plays based on proven paths to adoption
1. Help us establish metrics on time-per-use-case for adoption and insights on successes and non-successes

Commit message:

Add explanation for enable/expand filter logic

sites/handbook/source/handbook/customer-success/tam/stage-enablement-and-expansion/index.html.md, after:

---
layout: handbook-page-toc
title: "Use-case Enablement and Expansion"
---

## Use-case Enablement & Use-case Expansion: The Two Adoption Motions

The CSM team's primary focus is to align with a customer's desired business outcomes, enable the customer in their current use case, and expand the customer's use case into new use-cases. We accomplish this through use-case adoption, which has two critical motions: enablement and expansion.

## Why does use-case enablement & expansion matter?

GitLab’s primary point of differentiation is our [single application](/handbook/product/single-application/) approach. As we continue to drive value in any given use-case or category, our first instinct should be to connect that feature or product experience to other parts of the GitLab product. These cross-use-case connections will drive differentiated customer value, and will be impossible for point product competitors to imitate.  

Our [mission as a customer success team](/handbook/customer-success/#mission-statement) is to create value for our customers. As a customer adopts additional [DevOps use-cases](/stages-devops-lifecycle/) with GitLab, they see an increased return-on-investment (ROI). They receive this increased ROI by [increasing operational efficiencies, delivering better products faster, and reducing security and compliance risk](/handbook/sales/command-of-the-message/#customer-value-drivers).

## What is the difference between use-case enablement & use-case expansion?

For the CSM team in driving use-case enablement, there are two critical motions:

1. Use-case Expansion: Driving expansion into new use-cases as a part of an account planning motion, in-line with the SAL or AE, as a means of ensuring the customer receives increasing ROI and creating happy customers that grow. This motion starts with a discovery process to open the door to a more in-depth discovery, with demos and [workshops](/handbook/customer-success/#customer-workshops) focused on value-positioning that lead to the customer saying 'yes' and agreeing to adopt that use-case. The latter part of an expansion play is the enablement of the use-case, as articulated below. A small pilot used to prove value of a use-case would still count as expansion, since the customer has not agreed to widespread adoption yet.
1. Use-case Enablement: Enabling on the use-cases into which a customer expresses readiness to expand, either through a successful Use-case Expansion or by internal realization or directive that they want to adopt a new use-case. CSMs enable customers by creating quick time to value, overcoming technical roadblocks, and ensuring stickiness. The CSM provides the customer with guidance on adopting use-cases to maximize value attribution and to align adoption to the customer's desired positive business outcomes. Enablement can occur via CSM-led webinars, digital content, and/or professional services. Beyond a small expansion pilot, organic use-case adoption that starts with a few teams, counts as enablement.

## Where do I track the use-case enablement and expansion?

1. Both of these CTAs are to be opened in the [ROI success plan](/handbook/customer-success/tam/success-plans/#roi-success-plan). Select the appropriate playbook from the playbook section at the CTA level before saving. This then opens the suggested steps as tasks associated with this CTA.

**Note:** To ensure that your use-case Enablement or use-case Expansion CTA is included in reporting, please make sure to attach a playbook to the CTA.

### Reporting on expansion and enablement objectives

Each Use Case (CI, DevSecOps...) is determined by the Playbook Name, which is selected by the TAM when initially created. This automation (using the Playbook Name) automates the process so there is not an additional field to complete.

The filter used to identify Closed Enable/Expand CTAs are:

**Expand**

1. Playbook Name contains “Expand” in the case of Expand CTAs
    OR 
1. Objective Category == Expansion Stage Adoption
	AND
1. (Playbook Name does not contain "OLD" 

**Enable**

1. Playbook Name contains “Enable” in the case of Enable CTAs
    OR 
1. Objective Category == Enablement Stage Adoption
	AND
1. (Playbook Name does not contain "OLD" 


## When do I open a CTA/playbook?

1. Use-case Expansion: open the playbook when you plan to **start** the motion of exploring this expansion with the customer through the discovery process. This timing is incredibly key, since capturing the 'no' reasons helps articulate through data the roadblocks to expansion, and helps build scaleable plays for overcoming these roadblocks.  We expect to see more than 50% of our playbooks here being closed-no success for reasons of timing, internal challenges or otherwise!  The goal here is to continue exploring expansion with the customer as it pertains to furthering their business value with GitLab and collecting common reasons for no-success in order to establish more plays to help us overcome objections.
1. Use-case Enablement: open the playbook when the customer is ready to begin the process of adopting the use-case (vs when they say they intend to at a later time).

## When do I close a CTA/playbook?

1. Use-case Expansion: close the objective when the customer has agreed to enablement and pursuing adoption.
1. Use-case Enablement: close the objective once we have successfully completed the enablement activities listed in the playbook tasks. Note: This playbook is about delivering the required enablement and creating a roadmap for adoption, NOT achieving the adoption itself.  We use product usage data to determine adoption. 

### Key CSM Strategies

1. Improve onboarding experience
1. Improve the customer's time to value
1. Provide digital enablement for customer to use
1. Contribute knowledge to GitLab docs and blogs
1. Hold use-case expansion and enablement workshops and webinars
1. Ask effective discovery questions for plays based on proven paths to adoption
1. Help us establish metrics on time-per-use-case for adoption and insights on successes and non-successes
